

Method studies:

Record #1 of 113
ID: CMR-15351
AU: Haines TP
AU: Hill AM
TI: Inconsistent results in meta-analyses for the prevention of falls are found between study-level data and patient-level data
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2011
VL: 64
NO: 2
PG: 154-62
AD: Southern Physiotherapy Clinical School, Physiotherapy Department, Monash University, Frankston, Victoria 3199, Australia. terrence.haines@med.monash.edu.au
KY: CMR: Review methodology - data collection - individual patient data - IPD and nonIPD;CMRA2
AB: 

OBJECTIVE: This study seeks to examine whether existing study-level data meta-analysis approaches can be used to produce unbiased and precise effect estimates relative to meta-analyses conducted using patient-level data, where a recurrent event is the outcome of interest. 

STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Data from two studies focusing on the prevention of falls in the hospital setting (N=1,838 total) was divided into the three hospital sites from which data were collected. Outcome data were considered as recurrent event survival data, single event survival data, count data, rate data, and binary data. A range of analysis approaches were considered. 

RESULTS: Andersen-Gill, negative binomial, bootstrap resampling, and modified relative risk analysis approaches produced congruous point estimates of effect, whereas modified relative risk analysis produced considerably smaller standard errors. Pooled effect point estimates derived from these approaches were not consistent when using study-level data as opposed to patient-level data, and 95% confidence intervals were excessively wide when between-study heterogeneity was present. 

CONCLUSION: Conducting meta-analysis using patient-level data (if possible) or presenting results from individual trials without pooling of effect estimates may be preferable to presenting pooled effect estimates from meta-analysis of study-level data, where the outcome is a recurrent event.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15351/frame.html


Record #2 of 113
ID: CMR-16635
AU: Chen C
AU: Chen KH
AU: Kuo KN
AU: Tzeng PC
AU: Chien LT
AU: Lo HL
AU: Tam KW
TI: Utilization analysis of Chinese abstract of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews in three university hospitals. Poster presentation at the 19th Cochrane Colloquium; 2011 Oct 19-22; Madrid, Spain [abstract]
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Supplement
YR: 2011
VL: Suppl
NO: CD000003
PG: 57-8
KY: CMR: Other methodology - Cochrane Collaboration;CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: Background: The National Health Research Institutes in Taiwan has translated abstracts of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) into traditional Chinese since 2008. This is the only contracted translation activity of CDSR abstracts in East Asia. During the past two years, more than 800 participants have joined the translation task. The translated Chinese Abstracts of CDSR (CACDSR) were open to the public online since 2010. (http://clc.nhri.org.tw/admin/clcmain1.aspx). Objectives: To analyze the utilization of CACDSR in three university hospitals in the past eight months. Methods: 1. Obtain the monthly users' login information of CACDSR in three university hospitals from September 2010 to April 2011. 2. Analyze the trend of utilization among physicians, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. 3. Collect information on evidence-based medicine (EBM) events in these hospitals over the data collecting period. Results: 1. The utilization of CACDSR among nurses has increased significantly in the study period. The overall trend showed that the hit number in nurses is significantly higher than that of the other healthcare professionals. 2. The total hits of CACDSR from nurses are 9 times higher than that from doctors. When promoting a database, nurses are unnegligible. 3. The peak months of utilization had EBM activities at the time, such as an EBM workshop, an EBM contest and evidence-based quality improvement activities in the hospitals. These events may have stimulated the utilization in CACDSR. 4. The lowest month of utilization, i.e. Jan. 2011, can be explained by the influence of the long vacation around Chinese New Year. Conclusions: The study indicates the strong demands for Chinese translated databases while promoting evidence-based practice and continuous education for nursing professionals in Taiwan. EBM workshops, EBM contests, and evidence-based quality improvement activities may accelerate the utilization of evidence-based databases.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16635/frame.html


Record #3 of 113
ID: CMR-16136
AU: Beebe TJ
AU: Ziegenfuss JY
AU: Jenkins SM
AU: Haas LR
AU: Davern ME
TI: Who doesn't authorize the linking of survey and administrative health data? A general population-based investigation
SO: Annals of Epidemiology
YR: 2011
VL: 21
NO: 9
PG: 706-9
AD: Division of Health Care Policy and Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; Survey Research Center, Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - volunteer bias;CMRA3;CMRA7.1
AB: PURPOSE: To determine the extent of authorization bias in a study linking survey and medical record data in a general population-based investigation. METHODS: Authorization status (authorized data linkage vs. not) was ascertained through a sequential mixed mode mail and telephone survey conducted in Olmsted County, MN. Respondents (regardless of authorization status) were linked to the Rochester Epidemiology Project (REP), the medical record system for health care providers in Olmsted County. The REP provided data on gender, age, race, health status (co-morbid conditions), and health care utilization (ER admission, hospital admission, clinical office visits and procedures). Authorizers (n=1357) are compared to non-authorizers (n=217) with respect to these demographic and clinical characteristics. RESULTS: 86.2% of respondents authorized data linkage. Non-authorizers were younger, healthier (lower Charlson score), and less likely to have 3 or more recent clinical office visits. In multivariate analysis, Charlson score was no longer a significant predictor of authorization while an ER visit did predict authorization. CONCLUSIONS: Younger subjects are less likely to authorize data linkages. As such, researchers should be aware of this source of potential bias when analyzing population-based linked survey and administrative data. The presence of bias with respect to health care use is more complicated. It is dependent on how the concept is operationalized with heavy clinical users more likely to authorize and those with ER visits less so.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16136/frame.html


Record #4 of 113
ID: CMR-16384
AU: Garratt AM
AU: Helgeland J
AU: Gulbrandsen P
TI: Five-point scales outperform 10-point scales in a randomized comparison of item scaling for the Patient Experiences Questionnaire
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2011
VL: 64
NO: 2
PG: 200-7
AD: National Resource Centre for Rehabilitation in Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, PO Box 23 Vinderen, 0319 Oslo, Norway. Andrew.Garratt@diakonsyk.no
KY: CMR: Other methodology - patient based outcome measures;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVE: To assess the data quality of two approaches to scaling items within the Patient Experiences Questionnaire (PEQ); a five-point scale with descriptors for all scale points and a 10-point scale with descriptors only at the end points. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: The two versions were pretested through cognitive interviews with 14 patients. The PEQ was then mailed to 1,000 patients after inpatient treatment at a large university hospital in Norway, randomized to receive the 5- or 10-point scale versions. Response rates, missing data, item means, floor, and ceiling effects were assessed. Regression analysis was used to examine the impact of response scale on missing data, floor, and ceiling effects after controlling for age, education level, and health status. RESULTS: The five-point scale produced data with unimodal and fairly symmetric distributions in contrast to the highly skewed J- and U-shaped distributions for the 10-point scale. The five-point scale data had significantly lower item means, floor, and ceiling effects. Regression analysis showed that the type of scale explained a significant component of the variation in both floor and ceiling effects. CONCLUSION: The five-point scale performed better than the 10-point scale and is more suitable for assessing patient experiences. The revised PEQ will be used in Norwegian national surveys.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16384/frame.html


Record #5 of 113
ID: CMR-16449
AU: Reynolds J
AU: Mangesho P
AU: Vestergaard LS
AU: Chandler C
TI: Exploring meaning of participation in a clinical trial in a developing country setting: implications for recruitment [abstract]
SO: Trials
YR: 2011
VL: 12
NO: Suppl 1
PG: A114
AD: Joanna Reynolds, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK.
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - attitudes to trials;CMRA6.1
AB: Clinical Trials Methodology Conference; 2011 Oct 4-5; Bristol Marriott City Centre, Bristol, UK. Objectives: This study aimed to explore the experiences of people participating in a clinical trial in Tanzania. We sought to understand the meaning attached to participation and how experiences of being in the trial related to participants' original motivations for consenting, in order to explore appropriate strategies for recruitment in a developing country setting. Methods: We designed a qualitative study alongside a clinical observational trial of the efficacy and safety of artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) for malaria in patients concomitantly receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV in Muheza, Tanzania. Focus-group discussions have been held with HIV-positive and HIV-negative people who have participated in the trial, and with HIV-positive people who were screened but who did not participate. This data has been triangulated with in-depth interviews with staff conducting the trial and delivering HIV care at the hospital where the trial was conducted. Data is being analysed using an iterative, line-by-line approach based on the principles of grounded theory, to identify units of meaning and develop themes and constructs from the data. Results: Analysis to date of eight FGDs and IDIs indicates a disconnect between the information given to trial participants in the recruitment and consent process and their understanding of the trial and its aims, with a few participants stating they did not realise they were part of a research study. This reflects, and may be attributable to trial participants' frequent conflation of the clinical encounter - testing for malaria - with the research encounter - the recruitment process - and an inability to distinguish between these as separate events. When describing recruitment, many participants framed their narrative around clinical events such as the malaria test and seeking treatment, the latter being considered the most important reason for joining the study. The clinical context in which participants were screened and recruited appeared to influence their ability to interpret information about the trial and expectations for what may happen to them, raising questions about the nature of 'informed consent' in the recruitment process. Participants reported overwhelmingly positive experiences of participating in the trial, largely based around their access to numerous tests and free treatment, as well as reimbursement for transport and telephone costs. Being part of the trial was frequently conceptualised as receiving a 'service', valued chiefly for enabling participants to be observed and to know their health status. The perceived value of this 'service' was reflected in many participants' reports of encouraging friends and family to attend for malaria testing, in order to access the service associated with the trial. Although this indicates again some confusion between clinical and research activities, it appeared that the 'enactment' of the trial giving and receiving the service offered the social space in which participants were likely to raise any concerns about aspects of the trial. Such concerns included questioning the 'true' aim of the study, and fears over blood taking. This suggests that it is within a relationship of interaction with trial staff and activities that comprehension about the meaning and value of participation can begin to emerge, thus highlighting the potential shortcomings of the standard recruitment process. Conclusions: The findings from this study raise questions about how information is presented and used in the recruitment and consenting process for a trial, particularly one located within an existing clinical context. Recruitment strategies should take into consideration when, where and how information will be conveyed to participants, and explore likely expectations of these contexts which may shape how and if information is interpreted and utilised by potential participants. The findings also indicate that the meaning participants place on participation, its risks and benefits, develops largely through enactment of the relationship with trial staff and activities, rather than through the consent process. To ensure better informed consent, researchers could seek to activate this relationship earlier on in the trial process, for example through meaningful community engagement activities prior to recruitment. This study has also underscored the value participants in this low-resource setting place on engaging with a 'service' of health care provision, wherein they perceive their health status and needs to be the focus of trial activities. This service is an influential motivator for continuing to engage with a trial, beyond more material compensations such as money for transport. These findings also suggest the potential for word-of-mouth strategies to aid informed recruitment in contexts where the perceived benefits of participation are highly valued amongst the local community. Recruitment and continued participation in trials involve logistical and ethical challenges. Understanding values and concerns of participants can pose practical solutions.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16449/frame.html


Record #6 of 113
ID: CMR-16320
AU: Shabbir SA
AU: Ahmed LA
AU: Sudhir RR
AU: Scholl J
AU: Li YC
AU: Liou DM
TI: Comparison of documentation time between an electronic and a paper-based record system by optometrists at an eye hospital in south India: a time-motion study
SO: Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine
YR: 2010
VL: 100
NO: 3
PG: 283-8
AD: Institute of Biomedical Informatics, National Yang Ming University, Taipei City 112, Taiwan, ROC. drshabbir786@gmail.com
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - data entry;CMRA2
AB: PURPOSE: The adoption of electronic medical record (EMR) system is gradually increasing. However, various time-motion studies reveal conflicting data regarding time effectiveness on workflow due to computerization. One of the major issues for physicians is their uncertainty with EMRs' potential impact of time on workflow. A tertiary eye hospital in south India was in the process of implementing an EMR system in their ambulatory care unit. Many of the staff did not have previous computing experience and there were conflicting views on the time effectiveness of the computerized system after implementation. The management was thus interested to know the real time effectiveness of EMR in their hospital. The study compliments existing studies of this type by comparing the time efficiency of documentation time using EMR system with paper documentation in a hospital in a developing country where a transition between paper and EMR documentation was currently in progress. METHODS: Ten randomly selected optometrists documented the time they spent during consultation with both paper and EMR documentation. The time spent was documented for a total of 200 records (100 EMR and 100 paper records). The independent-samples t-test and analysis of variance were used to compare the means of the consultation time and calculated documentation time spent between the electronic and paper records. RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference in the time spent for documentation between electronic and paper records. The mean time spent in documenting electronic records was 0.92min (95% CI -3.06 to 1.14) longer than in paper records. CONCLUSION: EMR systems can be adopted in eye hospitals without having significant negative impact on duration of consultation and documentation for optometrists. More time-motion studies that include ophthalmologists are however needed in order to get a more complete picture of time impact of the EMR system on clinical workflow in eye hospitals.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16320/frame.html


Record #7 of 113
ID: CMR-16147
AU: Pons J
AU: Sais C
AU: Illa C
AU: Mendez R
AU: Sunen E
AU: Casas M
AU: Cami J
TI: Is there an association between the quality of hospitals' research and their quality of care?
SO: Journal of Health Services Research and Policy
YR: 2010
VL: 15
NO: 4
PG: 204-9
AD: Catalan Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Research, Department of Health, Barcelona, Spain. joan.ponsr@gencat.cat
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVE: It is often claimed that hospitals that are leaders in biomedical research provide higher health care quality, or vice versa. Although several studies have shown a relationship between teaching status and quality of care, none has analysed the association between research output and hospital outcomes. Our aim was to determine whether there is a relationship between bibliometric measures of research output in acute hospitals and hospital mortality for two common cardiac conditions. METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis of secondary data of in-hospital risk-adjusted mortality for congestive heart failure and acute myocardial infarction (2002-2004) and several bibliometric measures of publications (1996-2004) in cardiovascular disease. The setting was 50 acute Spanish public hospitals, voluntarily participating in an external quality initiative, with more than 30 medical cases of congestive heart failure and acute myocardial infarction per year, and more than five citable papers in the field of heart disease. Spearman's rho non-parametric correlation coefficient was used to assess association. RESULTS: There was a low-to-moderate negative correlation between the risk-adjusted mortality ratio and the weighted citations ratio: -0.43 (95% CI -0.17 to -0.63) for congestive heart failure and -0.37 (-0.10 to -0.59) for acute myocardial infarction. Teaching status and the technological level of the hospital had a stronger correlation with hospital mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Measures of research output could be considered for incorporation into comparisons of the quality of hospitals. A weighted citations ratio is the most suitable measure of research output, but more research is needed on the interplay between research and practice as complementary ways of developing medical knowledge.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16147/frame.html


Record #8 of 113
ID: CMR-15273
AU: Chiu Y-WB
AU: Weng Y-H
AU: Lo H-L
AU: Shih Y-H
AU: Ting H-W
TI: The characteristics of The Cochrane Library users: a nationwide survey of the regional hospitals in Taiwan. Oral presentation at the Joint Cochrane and Campbell Colloquium; 2010 Oct 18-22; Keystone, Colorado, USA [abstract]
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Supplement
YR: 2010
VL: Suppl
NO: CD000002
PG: 36
AD: Ya-Wen (Betty) Chiu, Institute of Population Health Scineces, Division of Health Policy Research and Development, National Health research Institutes, Miaoli County, Taiwan.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - dissemination;CMR: Other methodology - Cochrane Collaboration;CMRA3
AB: Background: In order to promote the implementation of evidence-based practice (EBP), the National Health Research Institutes (NHRI) has offered free access to Cochrane Library (CL) for the health professionals of the regional hospitals in Taiwan since the beginning of 2007. Objectives: The current study is designed to verify the characteristics of the CL users. Methods: A constructed questionnaire was designed for survey analysis. A total of 2806 valid questionnaires from the regional teaching hospitals in Taiwan were collected by 2009. Results: Approximately 32.3% participants used CL at least once per month during the past year. The physicians more often accessed CL than the nurses (P < 0.001). Respondents with either higher academic degree or faculty position or administrative position were more likely to use CL (P < 0.001). In addition, the users of CL tended to have more positive belief, attitudes, knowledge and skills of EBP. They suffered lesser barriers to EBP than non-users. In addition to CL, the users also more often accessed the other online evidence retrieval databases, including the Index to Chinese Periodical Literature, the Chinese Electronic Periodical Services, the Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature, MD consult, MEDLINE, ProQuest, and UpToDate. Conclusions: CL has not been widely used in the regional hospitals of Taiwan. The current study has identified the personal characteristics of the CL users. These data provide evidence for future strategy design to encourage health professionals to access CL.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15273/frame.html


Record #9 of 113
ID: CMR-15641
AU: Tiao M-M
AU: Hsu L-Y
AU: Huang L-T
AU: Kuo H-W
TI: The analysis of influencing factors of Cochrane Library usage from 2006 to 2008 in a medical center. Poster presentation at the Joint Cochrane and Campbell Colloquium; 2010 Oct 18-22; Keystone, Colorado, USA [abstract]
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Supplement
YR: 2010
VL: Suppl
NO: CD000002
PG: 83-4
AD: Mao-Meng Tiao, Pediatrics, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Other methodology - Cochrane Collaboration;CMRA3
AB: Aim: Cochrane Library was the most important database for evidence based practice. The aim of this study is to investigate the utilization of Cochrane Library in a medical center in Kaohsiung Taiwan. Methods: The data collected Cochrane Library usage and UpToDate usage in a medical center censored by the electric automatic censor system in a hospital library from 2006 Jan to 2008 Dec. Results: The Cochrane Library usage increased significantly (r2 = 0.280, P = 0.001) in this hospital, and the total usage was 6,211 in the 3 years period. The peak usage in 2006 was in Nov (n = 139) that we have an evidence based practice contest on Dec 30th 2006. The peak usage in 2007 was in Dec (n = 289) that a contest on Jan 26th 2008. The 2 highest hit in 2008 were in Jun 2008 (n = 415) and Oct 2008 (n = 1,030) that there were 2 potential teacher training courses on the same months. MD consult database also had the same trend hit as the Cochrane Library hit and increased usage in the 3 years period (r2 = 0.604, P<0.001). The total usage was 23,138 in the 3 years period. We did not find the same usage variation of UpToDate database (r2 = 0.001, P = 0.873) in the same period in the hospital. The total usage of UpToDate was 63,943 in the 3 years period. The usage occupation is doctors (55.0%), nurses (32.7), technician (9.9%), and administrators (2.4%) in Cochrane Library. The usage of UpToDate is different from Cochrane Library usage as in doctor (89.3%), nurses (5.3), technician (5.0%), and administrators (0.4%). Conclusions: The usage of Cochrane Library is increasing year by year but is still not as popular as UpToDate in our hospital except in teaching courses or contests motivation. The usage of Cochrane Library is about 1/10 of the usage of UpToDate in a medical center.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15641/frame.html


Record #10 of 113
ID: CMR-16321
AU: Shi Q
AU: You YN
AU: Nelson H
AU: Allen MS
AU: Winchester D
AU: Stewart A
AU: Young-Fadok T
AU: Decker PA
AU: Green EM
AU: Holton SJ
AU: Ballman KV
TI: Cancer registries: a novel alternative to long-term clinical trial follow-up based on results of a comparative study
SO: Clinical Trials
YR: 2010
VL: 7
NO: 6
PG: 686-95
AD: Health Sciences Research, Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. shi.qian2@mayo.edu
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - follow-up;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Data collection and review were identified as major contributors to the cost of randomized clinical trials (RCTs). PURPOSE: We proposed and assessed a novel alternative for long-term clinical trial follow-up based on the data captured through an accredited Cancer Registry (CR) that is part of the National Cancer Database (NCDB). METHODS: Patients from Mayo Clinic, Rochester, enrolled in the North Central Cancer Treatment Group N934653 (COST) trial (98 patients) and the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group Z0030 trial (55 patients) were included in the study. Demographic, treatment, and long-term outcome data were compared between the hospital-based CR and the RCTs' databases. Concordances were used to estimate the agreement between two databases. Kaplan-Meier curves were plotted to examine the consistency of time-to-event long-term outcomes of the CR and RCT databases. RESULTS: High concordances (>95%) were observed for most demographic and treatment variables between the CR data and RCT data. The vital status concordances were 100% and 94.5% between the CR and COST and Z0030 databases, respectively. Three discrepant death dates were observed, one in the COST trial and two in the Z0030 trial. The concordances of disease-free status between the CR and RCT databases were 99.0% and 87.3%, and 15 discrepant disease recurrence cases were identified: 4 for COST and 11 for Z0030. LIMITATIONS: The analysis has been focused on patients from a single site, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, enrolled in two large RCT evaluating surgical treatments. The findings herein need to be confirmed in a broader setting, such as multi-center, multi-registry including nonsurgical trials. CONCLUSIONS: CR data were nearly identical to data from two randomized phase III trials in different disease types and conducted by two different cooperative groups. The NCDB Cancer Registries represent a feasible alternative for obtaining long-term follow-up data for large clinical trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16321/frame.html


Record #11 of 113
ID: CMR-15541
AU: Piron C
AU: Geurden B
AU: Gobert M
TI: Nurse related systematic reviews in The Cochrane Library. Poster presentation at the Joint Cochrane and Campbell Colloquium; 2010 Oct 18-22; Keystone, Colorado, USA [abstract]
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Supplement
YR: 2010
VL: Suppl
NO: CD000002
PG: 127
AD: Cécile Piron, PRISCI - Institut de recherche Santé & Société, Université catholique de Louvain, Bruxelles, Belgium.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - identification of systematic reviews;CMRA3
AB: Background: Nurses are the largest component of the health care workforce. The laborious implementation of evidence based results in their practice is partially explainable by their limited access to high quality information resources. The Cochrane Library offers all care providers (including registered nurses) the best evidence currently available for clinical decision making in order to provide the most consistent and best possible care for patients. But the nursing content of the Cochrane Library is not clearly identified. Objectives: The study aim is to identify all systematic reviews published in the Cochrane Library that are of direct use for nurses. Method: A search strategy using MeSH terms to identify all systematic reviews relevant to nurses and published in the Cochrane database of systematic reviews. Based on the abstract, several data were systematically identified: Population: newborn, children, adults, elderly. Intervention: prevention, education, care or cure. Comparison. Outcomes: quality of live, self care. Setting: hospital, nursing home, home care. Nurse specialty: intensive care, oncology, pediatric, geriatric. Conclusion: no or limited evidence versus applicable evidence. Need of further research: not needed versus needed . Latest update. In addition, the presence of a meta analysis, the number of included studies, and relevant data about the authors are presented. Results: In December 2009, 1264 results out of 6076 records were indentified for ''nurs* AND care OR prevention OR clinical OR education in Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews'' in all search field. Analyses are in progress. Conclusion: About 21% of the publications in the Cochrane database of Systematic reviews are currently of direct interest for nurses. Improving the knowledge and visibility of the Cochrane Library among nurses could stimulate a better use of this source of evidence.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15541/frame.html


Record #12 of 113
ID: CMR-16521
AU: Temel AB
AU: Uysal A
AU: Ardahan M
AU: Ozkahraman S
TI: Barriers to Research Utilization Scale: psychometric properties of the Turkish version
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2010
VL: 66
NO: 2
PG: 456-64
AD: Department of Public Health, School of Nursing, Ege University, Bornova-Izmir, Turkey.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: AIM: This paper is report of a study designed to assess the psychometric properties of the Turkish version of the Barriers to Research Utilization Scale. BACKGROUND: The original Barriers to Research Utilization Scale was developed by Funk et al. in the United States of America. Many researchers in various countries have used this scale to identify barriers to research utilization. METHODS: A methodological study was carried out at four hospitals. The sample consisted of 300 nurses. Data were collected in 2005 using a socio-demographic form (12 questions) and the Turkish version of the Barriers to Research Utilization Scale. A Likert-type scale composed of four sub-factors and 29 items was used. Means and standard deviations were calculated for interval level data. A P value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant. FINDINGS: Language equivalence and content validity were assessed by eight experts. Confirmatory factor analysis revealed that the Turkish version was made up of four subscales. Internal consistency reliability coefficient was 0.92 for the total scale and ranged from 0.73 to 0.80 for the subscales. Total-item correlation coefficients ranged from 0.37 to 0.60. CONCLUSION: The Turkish version of the scale is similar in structure to the original English language scale.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16521/frame.html


Record #13 of 113
ID: CMR-15467
AU: Martinez-Martin P
AU: Jimenez-Jimenez FJ
AU: Carroza Garcia E
AU: Alonso-Navarro H
AU: Rubio L
AU: Calleja P
AU: Diaz-Sanchez M
AU: Benito-Leon J
TI: Most of the Quality of Life in Essential Tremor Questionnaire (QUEST) psychometric properties resulted in satisfactory values
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2010
VL: 63
NO: 7
PG: 767-73
AD: Area of Applied Epidemiology, National Center for Epidemiology, and Consortium for Biomedical Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases (Centro de Investigacion Biomedica en Red Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas-CIBERNED), Carlos III Institute of Health, CI, S
KY: CMR: Other methodology - quality of life;CMR: Other methodology - patient based outcome measures;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVE: This study sought to assess the psychometric attributes of the Quality of Life in Essential Tremor Questionnaire (QUEST) by undertaking an independent validation. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: This was an observational, multicenter, cross-sectional study carried out in Neurology Departments of general hospitals. The following assessments were applied: Louis Rating Scale, Clinical Assessment of Tremor, Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-ET), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), EQ-5D, and QUEST (Spanish version). RESULTS: One hundred and eighteen consecutive patients were included. According to the CGI-ET, most of patients had mild (42.4%) or moderate (43.2%) impact of tremor on performing daily activities. Fully computable QUEST data were 60.2%. The QUEST Summary Index (QUEST-SI) displayed marginal floor or ceiling effect. On the whole, QUEST internal consistency and reproducibility were satisfactory (Cronbach's alpha values: 0.73-0.86; QUEST-SI intraclass correlation coefficient: 0.77). Factor analysis identified eight factors (73.6% of the variance) that could be grouped into six, relatively coincident with the questionnaire's dimensions. The QUEST-SI correlated moderately with the EQ-5D index (r(S)=-0.40), HADS-Depression (r(S)=0.39), and CGI-ET (r(S)=0.39), and strongly with the QUEST scale for self-evaluation of tremor severity (r(S)=0.63). The standard error of measurement was 8.00. CONCLUSION: Apart from a substantial problem of acceptability, most of the tested psychometric attributes of the QUEST resulted satisfactory.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15467/frame.html


Record #14 of 113
ID: CMR-15381
AU: Hu J
AU: Shang H
AU: Kang D
TI: External validity of randomized controlled trials: a sample survey of hypertension trials in China. Poster presentation at the Joint Cochrane and Campbell Colloquium; 2010 Oct 18-22; Keystone, Colorado, USA [abstract]
SO: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Supplement
YR: 2010
VL: Suppl
NO: CD000002
PG: 126
AD: Jing Hu, Evidence based medicine, Tianjin University of TCM, Tianjin, China.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - scales and checklists - trials;CMRA3
AB: Objective: To explore the reporting of information useful in quality judgment and assess the external validity based on a sample of hypertension randomized controlled trials (RCTs) conducted in China. Methods: Four databases including the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, CBMdisc (China Biomedicine Database Disc) and CNKI (Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure) were searched between January 1996 and December 2006 for all hypertension RCTs conducted in China. Language was limited to Chinese and English. The internal validity of all RCTs was evaluated firstly by a modified scale, trials that fulfilled the minimum quality threshold were included. Information useful in assessing the internal validity and external validity was collected by using a data extraction form. Results: 164 RCTs were finally included for more informed assessment of external validity. (1) Representation of samples: 122 (74.4%) RCTs selected secondary or tertiary cares as their trial settings. 81 (49.4%) RCTs described the source of samples, in which 86.3% patients came from hospitals, only 13.7% came from communities. 24.6% patients were ineligible for inclusion criteria in 8 (4.9%) RCTs, 14.5% eligible patients were non-enrolled in 2 RCTs, 16.7% patients in 12 (7.3%) RCTs were excluded in run-in periods. The elderly and women patients were markedly under-enrolled in study population (P < 0.001), participants in study population were younger, more often male, and the under-enrollment of women in study population was significantly associated with the mean age of participants in trials (P < 0.001). We also found that those RCTs funded by pharmacy and treated with alpha-Blocker more excluded patients aged 65 years or older (P < 0.05). (2) Intervention: Those RCTs with ARB were the most number (25%), next was the CCB(21%), the least was the diuretic, only 3%. (3) Outcome: Many RCTs had the inadequate duration of treatment follow-up, only 4?8 weeks. 6 RCTs choose the incidence or fatality of cardiocerebrovascular as the outcome, 12 RCTs choose the patient-centered outcomes. Only one RCT made the cost analysis. 96 RCTs (58.5%) described the adverse clinical events. Conclusion: The reporting of information useful for assessing the external validity in hypertension RCTs conducted in China was poorly addressed; there is marked room for improvement in quality of reporting. The elderly and women patients were consistently underrepresented in those RCTs, which might seriously affect the external validity of trials. The regulatory agencies of clinical trials in China should play an important role in both improving representation of study population and raising awareness of external validity in clinical trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-15381/frame.html


Record #15 of 113
ID: CMR-14537
AU: Gattellari M
AU: Worthington J
AU: Jalaludin B
AU: Mohsin M
TI: Stroke unit care in a real-life setting: Can results from randomized controlled trials be translated into every-day clinical practice? An observational study of hospital data in a large australian population
SO: Stroke
YR: 2009
VL: 40
NO: 1
PG: 10-7
AD: M. Gattellari, School of Public Health and Community Medicine, Division of Population Health, University of New South Wales, Locked Bag 7017, Liverpool, NSW 1871, Australia. E-mail: Melina.Gattellari@sswahs.nsw.gov.au
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Other methodology - ethics of trials - eligible & randomised vs eligible & not randomised;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: In randomized trials, acute stroke units are associated with improved patient outcomes. However, it is unclear whether this evidence can be successfully translated into routine clinical practice. We aimed to determine the effect of a coordinated rollout of funding for 22 stroke units on patient outcomes in Australia. METHODS: A multicenter observational study was undertaken using health administrative data recording admissions for a primary diagnosis of ischemic stroke from July 2000 to June 2006. Analyses were stratified by hospital type (major principal referral, smaller nonprincipal referral hospitals). RESULTS: We analyzed 17 659 admissions for ischemic stroke. Among major principal referral hospitals with acute stroke units, the proportion of admissions resulting in death or discharge to home was unchanged after stroke unit rollout (10.7% vs 10.6% and 44.1% vs 45.0%, respectively; P< or =0.37). In contrast, significant differences in discharge destination were noted across time among smaller nonprincipal referral hospitals (P<0.001). Before the rollout of stroke units, 13.8% of admissions to smaller hospitals resulted in a death, decreasing to 10.5% after stroke units were implemented. Discharges to home increased from 38.8% to 44.5%. Discharges to nursing homes decreased from 6.3% to 4.9%. Differences across time remained significant when controlling for patient demographics, comorbidities, indicators of poor prognosis, and clustering of outcomes at hospital level. Improved outcomes were observed across all ages and among patients with indicators for a poor prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: This multicenter analysis of a large Australian population of hospital stroke admissions demonstrates short-term benefits from implementing stroke units in nonprincipal referral hospitals.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14537/frame.html


Record #16 of 113
ID: CMR-14756
AU: Taori G
AU: Ho KM
AU: George C
AU: Bellomo R
AU: Webb SAR
AU: Hart GK
AU: Bailey MJ
TI: Landmark survival as an end-point for trials in critically ill patients - comparison of alternative durations of follow-up: an exploratory analysis
SO: Critical Care
YR: 2009
VL: 13
NO: 4
PG: R128
AD: R. Bellomo, Department of Intensive Care, Austin Hospital, Studley Road, Melbourne, VIC 3084, Australia. E-mail: rinaldo.bellomo@med.monash.edu.au
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - follow-up;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - statistical analysis;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - outcome reporting bias;CMRA2
AB: Introduction: Interventional ICU trials have followed up patients for variable duration. However, the optimal duration of follow-up for the determination of mortality endpoint in such trials is uncertain. We aimed to determine the most logical and practical mortality end-point in clinical trials of critically ill patients. Methods: We performed a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data involving 369 patients with one of the three specific diagnoses (i) Sepsis (ii) Community acquired pneumonia (iii) Non operative trauma admitted to the Royal Perth Hospital ICU, a large teaching hospital in Western Australia (WA cohort). Their in-hospital and post discharge survival outcome was assessed by linkage to the WA Death Registry. A validation cohort involving 4609 patients admitted during same time period with identical diagnoses from 55 ICUs across Australia (CORE cohort) was used to compare the patient characteristics and in-hospital survival to look at the Australia-wide applicability of the long term survival data from the WA cohort. Results: The long term outcome data of the WA cohort indicate that mortality reached a plateau at 90 days after ICU admission particularly for sepsis and pneumonia. Mortality after hospital discharge before 90 days was not uncommon in these two groups. Severity of acute illness as measured by the total number of organ failures or acute physiology score was the main predictor of 90-day mortality. The adjusted in-hospital survival for the WA cohort was not significantly different from that of the CORE cohort in all three diagnostic groups; sepsis (P = 0.19), community acquired pneumonia (P = 0.86), non-operative trauma (P = 0.47). Conclusions: A minimum of 90 days follow-up is necessary to fully capture the mortality effect of sepsis and community acquired pneumonia. A shorter period of follow-up time may be sufficient for non-operative trauma.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14756/frame.html


Record #17 of 113
ID: CMR-16091
AU: Yap TY
AU: Yamokoski A
AU: Noll R
AU: Drotar D
AU: Zyzanski S
AU: Kodish ED
TI: A physician-directed intervention: teaching and measuring better informed consent
SO: Academic Medicine
YR: 2009
VL: 84
NO: 8
PG: 1036-42
AD: Children's Hospital Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMR: Evaluation methodology - consumer involvement;CMR: Evaluation methodology - patient involvement;CMR: Other methodology - ethics of trials;CMRA3
AB: PURPOSE: To improve physician communication with parents using a physician-directed intervention (PDI), emphasizing a sequenced approach to the informed consent conference (ICC) for childhood leukemia clinical trials in which physicians discuss diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment prior to the offer of a clinical trial. METHOD: Physicians and fellows at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and Children's National Medical Center were recruited to participate in Informed Consent Seminars and subsequent half-day booster sessions. Training was followed by a multisite study of informed consent communication. Real-life ICCs were observed and audiotaped, and parents were interviewed after the ICC to ascertain their understanding. Data from the ICC and interview were then coded and analyzed. Trained physician performances were compared with untrained physicians (controls) at two other research sites. Data were collected from 2003 to 2007 at PDI sites and control sites for comparison. RESULTS: A total of 102 cases were included for initial analyses, with 60 cases from the PDI sites and 42 control cases. Fifty-nine cases were included in the final analysis. Findings revealed that trained physicians followed the sequenced approach more often when compared with controls. Similarly, physicians at the PDI sites tended to elicit parental questions and understanding in an open-ended way and clarify parents' questions more frequently than physicians at the control sites. CONCLUSIONS: Academic physicians who are involved in the current transformation of clinical research should be trained to conduct effective ICCs. The "see one, do one, teach one" approach is no longer adequate for informed consent.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-16091/frame.html


Record #18 of 113
ID: CMR-13468
AU: Gates S
AU: Williams MA
AU: Withers E
AU: Williamson E
AU: Mt-Isa S
AU: Lamb SE
TI: Does a monetary incentive improve the response to a postal questionnaire in a randomised controlled trial? The MINT incentive study
SO: Trials
YR: 2009
VL: 10
PG: 44
AD: Warwick Medical School Clinical Trials Unit, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK. s.gates@warwick.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - data collection - strategies to improve questionnaire response;CMRA2;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Sending a monetary incentive with postal questionnaires has been found to improve the proportion of responders, in research in non-healthcare settings. However, there is little research on use of incentives to improve follow-up rates in clinical trials, and existing studies are inconclusive. We conducted a randomised trial among participants in the Managing Injuries of the Neck Trial (MINT) to investigate the effects on the proportion of questionnaires returned and overall non-response of sending a 5 pounds gift voucher with a follow-up questionnaire. METHODS: Participants in MINT were randomised to receive either: (a) a 5 POUNDSgift voucher (incentive group) or (b) no gift voucher (no incentive group), with their 4 month or 8 month follow-up questionnaire. We recorded, for each group, the number of questionnaires returned, the number returned without any chasing from the study office, the overall number of non-responders (after all chasing efforts by the study office), and the costs of following up each group. RESULTS: 2144 participants were randomised, 1070 to the incentive group and 1074 to the no incentive group. The proportion of questionnaires returned (RR 1.10 (95% CI 1.05, 1.16)) and the proportion returned without chasing (RR 1.14 (95% CI 1.05, 1.24) were higher in the incentive group, and the overall non-response rate was lower (RR 0.68 (95% CI 0.53, 0.87)). Adjustment for injury severity and hospital of recruitment to MINT made no difference to these results, and there were no differences in results between the 4-month and 8-month follow up questionnaires. Analysis of costs suggested a cost of 67.29 POUNDS per additional questionnaire returned. CONCLUSION: Monetary incentives may be an effective way to increase the proportion of postal questionnaires returned and minimise loss to follow-up in clinical trials. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN61305297.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-13468/frame.html


Record #19 of 113
ID: CMR-14062
AU: Atiomo W
AU: Read A
AU: Golding M
AU: Silcocks P
AU: Razali N
AU: Sarkar S
AU: Hardiman P
AU: Thornton J
TI: Local recruitment experience in a study comparing the effectiveness of a low glycaemic index diet with a low calorie healthy eating approach at achieving weight loss and reducing the risk of endometrial cancer in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
SO: Contemporary Clinical Trials
YR: 2009
VL: 30
NO: 5
PG: 451-6
AD: Division of Human Development, School of Clinical Sciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK. William.atiomo@nottingham.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA6.1;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVE: Feasibility of a clinical-trial comparing a low-glycaemic diet with a low-calorie healthy eating approach at achieving weight loss and reducing the risk of endometrial cancer in women with PCOS. DESIGN: A pilot Randomised-Controlled-Trial using different recruitment strategies. SETTING: A University Hospital in the United Kingdom. PATIENTS: Women seen at specialist gynaecology clinics over a 12 month period in one University Hospital, and women self identified through a website and posters. INTERVENTIONS: Potential recruits were assessed for eligibility, gave informed consent, randomised, treated and assessed as in the definitive trial. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Eligibility and recruitment rates, compliance with the allocated diet for 6 months and with clinical assessments, blood tests, pelvic ultrasound scans and endometrial biopsies. RESULTS: 1433 new and 2598 follow up patients were seen in 153 gynaecology clinics for over 12 months. 441 (11%) potentially eligible women were identified, 19 (0.4%) of whom met the trial entry criteria. Eleven consented to take part, of which 8 (73%) completed the study. CONCLUSIONS: Planned future trials on over-weight women with PCOS should be multicentre and should incorporate primary care. This data will help other researchers plan and calculate the sample size and potential recruitment rates in future clinical trials in PCOS. The results will also be useful for inclusion in future meta-analyses.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14062/frame.html


Record #20 of 113
ID: CMR-14708
AU: Roozenbeek B
AU: Maas AIR
AU: Marmarou A
AU: Butcher I
AU: Lingsma HF
AU: Lu J
AU: McHugh GS
AU: Murray GD
AU: Steyerberg EW
TI: The influence of enrollment criteria on recruitment and outcome distribution in traumatic brain injury studies: results from the impact study
SO: Journal of Neurotrauma
YR: 2009
VL: 26
NO: 7
PG: 1069-75
AD: A. I. R. Maas, Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Antwerp, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Edegem, Belgium. E-mail: andrew.maas@uza.be
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials -relationship to trial quality;CMRA6.1;CMRA2
AB: Substantial heterogeneity exists among patients who suffer from traumatic brain injury (TBI). Strict enrollment criteria may diminish heterogeneity in randomized controlled trials (RCTs), but will also decrease recruitment and may affect the outcome distribution. The aim of this study was to investigate the influences of commonly used enrollment criteria for RCTs in TBI on potential recruitment and on outcome distribution. We used individual patient data from the International Mission on Prognosis and Analysis of Clinical Trials in TBI (IMPACT) database, including six therapeutic phase III RCTs (n = 5816) and three surveys (n = 2217) in TBI. The primary outcome was the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) at 6 months after injury, which we dichotomized as favorable/unfavorable. We investigated the influences of commonly used enrollment criteria on recruitment and outcome distribution: time window between injury and admission to study hospital < or = 8 h; age at injury < or = 65 years; > or = 1 reactive pupil; motor score > 1; Glasgow Coma Scale < or = 8. Application of all enrollment criteria resulted in a large reduction of recruitment in both the surveys (up to 65%) and the RCTs (up to 41%). Among the remaining patients, fewer had an unfavorable outcome in both the surveys (original, 60%; remaining, 44%) and the RCTs (original, 43%; remaining, 38%). Applying these enrollment criteria to patients from the surveys resulted in an outcome distribution that approximated the outcome observed in the RCTs. The use of strict enrollment criteria leads to substantial reductions in the recruitment of RCTs in TBI. The outcome in TBI studies depends strongly on the enrollment criteria.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14708/frame.html


Record #21 of 113
ID: CMR-13933
AU: Benamer HT
AU: Bredan A
AU: Bakoush O
TI: A negative trend of biomedical research in Libya: a bibliometric study
SO: Health Information and Libraries Journal
YR: 2009
VL: 26
NO: 3
PG: 240-5
AD: Department of Neurology, New Cross Hospital, Wolverhampton, UK. benamer@doctors.org.uk
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - history and epidemiology of evaluations;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: It is well established that Libya is lagging behind its peers in biomedical research. The aim of this study is to analyse all the original biomedical publications affiliated with Libya from 1973 to 2007. METHODS: PubMed and the Science Citation Index Expanded were searched for 'original research' biomedical studies affiliated with Libya. The generated data were hand searched and 329 'original research' studies were included in the analysis. RESULTS: The first study was published in 1973. Publication rate peaked to an average of 15.2 studies per year during 1986-1996 and dropped to an average of 8.8 studies per year during 1997-2007. Of 166 first authors; 41% were Libyans and 59% were expatriates. The latter contributed 104 studies between 1986 and 1996 and 36 studies between 1997 and 2007, while the Libyans contributed 63 and 61 studies in the two respective periods. Authors affiliated with Benghazi produced 67% of the published studies, while authors from Tripoli produced 30% and other medical schools, hospitals and research centres from other Libyan cities produced only 3%. CONCLUSION: This study showed a decline in biomedical research publication in Libya. We propose that the lack of a research culture among the Libyan medical professionals is one of the factors contributing to this decline, which coincided with the departure of expatriate doctors from Libya. Raising awareness of the importance of research and improving research skills among Libyan medical professionals may help to reverse the current trend.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-13933/frame.html


Record #22 of 113
ID: CMR-11889
AU: Thalanany MM
AU: Mugford M
AU: Hibbert C
AU: Cooper NJ
AU: Truesdale A
AU: Robinson S
AU: Tiruvoipati R
AU: Elbourne DR
AU: Peek GJ
AU: Clemens F
AU: Hardy P
AU: Wilson A
TI: Methods of data collection and analysis for the economic evaluation alongside a national, multi-centre trial in the UK: conventional ventilation or ECMO for Severe Adult Respiratory Failure (CESAR).
SO: BMC Health Services Research
YR: 2008
VL: 8
PG: 94
AD: School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK. m.mugford@uea.ac.uk.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - scales and checklists - trials;CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) is a technology used in treatment of patients with severe but potentially reversible respiratory failure. A multi-centre randomised controlled trial (CESAR) was funded in the UK to compare care including ECMO with conventional intensive care management. The protocol and funding for the CESAR trial included plans for economic data collection and analysis. Given the high cost of treatment, ECMO is considered an expensive technology for many funding systems. However, conventional treatment for severe respiratory failure is also one of the more costly forms of care in any health system. METHODS/DESIGN: The objectives of the economic evaluation are to compare the costs of a policy of referral for ECMO with those of conventional treatment; to assess cost-effectiveness and the cost-utility at 6 months follow-up; and to assess the cost-utility over a predicted lifetime. Resources used by patients in the trial are identified. Resource use data are collected from clinical report forms and through follow up interviews with patients. Unit costs of hospital intensive care resources are based on parallel research on cost functions in UK NHS intensive care units. Other unit costs are based on published NHS tariffs. Cost effectiveness analysis uses the outcome: survival without severe disability. Cost utility analysis is based on quality adjusted life years gained based on the Euroqol EQ-5D at 6 months. Sensitivity analysis is planned to vary assumptions about transport costs and method of costing intensive care. Uncertainty will also be expressed in analysis of individual patient data. Probabilities of cost effectiveness given different funding thresholds will be estimated. DISCUSSION: In our view it is important to record our methods in detail and present them before publication of the results of the trial so that a record of detail not normally found in the final trial reports can be made available in the public domain. TRIAL REGISTRATIONS: The CESAR trial registration number is ISRCTN47279827.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11889/frame.html


Record #23 of 113
ID: CMR-12680
AU: Sayehmiri K
AU: Eshraghian MR
AU: Mohammad K
AU: Alimoghaddam K
AU: Foroushani AR
AU: Zeraati H
AU: Golestan B
AU: Ghavamzadeh A
TI: Prognostic factors of survival time after hematopoietic stem cell transplant in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients: Cox proportional hazard versus accelerated failure time models.
SO: Journal of Experimental & Clinical Cancer Research
YR: 2008
VL: 27
PG: 74
AD: Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Iran. sayehmiri@razi.tums.ac.ir
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies;CMRA2
AB: BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to evaluate the prognostic factors of overall survival (OS) after haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) patients using accelerated failure time (AFT), Cox proportional hazard (PH), and Cox time-varying coefficient models. METHODS: 206 patients were enrolled after HSCH in Shariati Hospital between 1993 and 2007. There was evidence of marked departures from the proportional hazards assumption with two prognostic factors, relapse and chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) (P < .001). Performance among AFT and Cox's models was assessed using explained variation and goodness of fit methods. Discrimination among the exponential, Weibull, generalized gamma (GG), log-logistic, and lognormal distributions was done using maximum likelihood and Akaike information criteria. RESULTS: The 5-year OS was 52% (95%CI: 47.3-56.7). Peak mortality hazard occurred at months 6-7 after HSCT followed by a decreasing trend. In univariate analysis, the data was better fitted by GG distribution than by other distributions. Univariate analysis using GG distribution showed a positive association between OS with acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) (P = .021), no relapse (P < .001), cGVHD (P < .001), neutrophil recovery (P < .001) and platelet recovery (P < .001). Based on Cox PH models; however cGVHD and relapse were the predictive factors of OS (P < .001). Multivariate analysis indicated that, OS is related to relapse (P < .001) and platelet recovery (P = .037), where predictive power of Weibull AFT models was superior to Cox PH model and Cox with time-varying coefficient (R2 = 0.46 for AFT, R2 = .21 for Cox PH and R2 = .34 for Cox time-varying coefficient). Cox-Snell residual shows Weibull AFT fitted to data better than other distributions in multivariate analysis. CONCLUSION: We concluded that AFT distributions can be a useful tool for recognizing prognostic factors of OS in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12680/frame.html


Record #24 of 113
ID: CMR-12387
AU: Lemieux J
AU: Goodwin PJ
AU: Pritchard KI
AU: Gelmon KA
AU: Bordeleau LJ
AU: Duchesne T
AU: Camden S
AU: Speers CH
TI: Identification of cancer care and protocol characteristics associated with recruitment in breast cancer clinical trials.
SO: Journal of Clinical Oncology
YR: 2008
VL: 26
NO: 27
PG: 4458-65
AD: Unite de Recherche en Sante des Populations, Centre des Maladies du Sein Deschenes-Fabia, Hopital St-Sacrement, Quebec, Canada. julie.lemieux@uresp.ulaval.ca
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA3
AB: PURPOSE: It is estimated that only 5% of patients with cancer participate in a clinical trial. Barriers to participation may relate to available protocols, physicians, and patients, but few data exist on barriers related to cancer care environments and protocol characteristics. METHODS: The primary objective was to identify characteristics of cancer care environments and clinical trial protocols associated with a low recruitment into breast cancer clinical trials. Secondary objectives were to determine yearly recruitment fraction onto clinical trials from 1997 to 2002 in Ontario, Canada, and to compare recruitment fraction among years. Questionnaires were sent to hospitals requesting characteristics of cancer care environments and to cooperative groups/pharmaceutical companies for information on protocols and the number of patients recruited per hospital/year. Poisson regression was used to estimate the recruitment fraction. RESULTS: Questionnaire completion rate varied between 69% and 100%. Recruitment fraction varied between 5.4% and 8.5% according to year. More than 30% of patients were diagnosed in hospitals with no available trials. In multivariate analysis, the following characteristics were associated with recruitment: use of placebo versus not (relative risk [RR] = 0.80; P = .05), nonmetastatic versus metastatic trial (RR = 2.80; P < .01), and for nonmetastatic trials, protocol allowing an interval of 12 weeks or longer versus less than 12 weeks (from diagnosis, surgery, or end of therapy) before enrollment (RR = 1.36; P < .01). CONCLUSION: Allowable interval of 12 weeks or longer to randomly assign patients in clinical trials could help recruitment. In our study, absence of an available clinical trial represented the largest barrier to recruitment.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12387/frame.html


Record #25 of 113
ID: CMR-12509
AU: Mowatt G
AU: Campbell F
AU: Burr JM
TI: Should Cochrane reviews that include full text reports of non-randomised evidence also include abstracts of such evidence? Poster presentation at the 16th Cochrane Colloquium: Evidence in the era of globalisation; 2008 Oct 3-7; Freiburg, Germany [abstract]
SO: Zeitschrift fur Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualitat im Gesundheitswesen
YR: 2008
VL: 102
NO: Suppl VI
PG: 68-9
AD: Mowatt G, Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies;CMRA3
AB: Background: Including abstracts of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in systematic reviews can help address publication bias, contribute data where none are otherwise available and increase precision in a metaanalysis. Where the question of interest cannot be answered by RCTs, some Cochrane reviews include non-randomised evidence. For these types of reviews, however, there is less certainty as to the benefits or otherwise of also including abstracts of such evidence. Objectives: This study examined the effects of including abstracts of RCTs and non-randomised studies on the results of a series of systematic reviews that were undertaken to assess the safety and efficacy of interventional procedures. Methods: For each review, numbers of included full text studies and abstracts were tabulated. The amount of data contributed by abstracts of RCTs and non-randomised studies to primary efficacy outcomes and adverse effects information was analysed and compared. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken by examining how excluding abstracts of RCTs and non-randomised studies affected the results of the reviews, both in terms of the amount of data subsequently available for primary efficacy outcomes and adverse effects and any impact on the direction of effect. Results: In 13 reviews including a total of 619 studies, 78 (13%) were abstracts, of which 22 (28%) reported RCTs and 56 (72%) reported nonrandomised studies. Six reviews contained no abstracts. Across the remaining seven reviews, the median number of abstracts included was 11 (range 1 to 28). These seven reviews addressed a variety of topics, including interventions aimed at preventing medication error (medicines reconciliation) at hospital admission, mesh or grafts for vaginal wall prolapse repair, foam sclerotherapy for venous disease of the lower limbs, electrosurgery for tonsillectomy, sacral nerve stimulation for urinary and faecal incontinence, and photorefractive surgery for the correction of refractive error. Conclusions: The number of abstracts included in the reviews varied considerably. Detailed results will be presented on how abstracts of RCTs and non-randomised studies contributed data to the reviews and the effect that excluding them had on primary efficacy outcomes and adverse effects information, and direction of effect of the results.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12509/frame.html


Record #26 of 113
ID: CMR-14498
AU: Crocker M
AU: Corns R
AU: Hampton T
AU: Deasy N
AU: Tolias CM
TI: Vascular neurosurgery following the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial: modern practice reflected by subspecialization
SO: Journal of Neurosurgery
YR: 2008
VL: 109
NO: 6
PG: 992-7
AD: M. Crocker, Academic Neurosurgery Unit, St. George's University of London, London SW17 0RE, United Kingdom. E-mail: matthewcrocker@blueyonder.co.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: Objective: In this paper the authors' goal was to report on and examine (in the context of a large hospital with good endovascular intervention provisions) the activities of a neurosurgeon with a dedicated vascular interest in the era after the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial in the United Kingdom. They also aimed to establish therapeutic trends and outcomes. Methods: The authors reviewed the multidisciplinary team activity of 1 neurosurgeon and 2 interventional radiologists during a period of 22 months (2005-2007). They reviewed 281 aneurysm interventions; the majority was used to treat subarachnoid hemorrhage. Data analysis showed a strong preference for endovascular treatment for acute rupture (86.6 vs 13.4%), with a progressively greater role for open microsurgery in the more elective context (57% endovascular vs 43% surgical). They also reviewed 66 interventions for arteriovenous malformations, of which only 6 were surgical. These data are compared against a sample year from 2001 to 2002 (pre-International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial), showing comparable rates of surgically treated aneurysms versus endovascularly treated aneurysms, but an increase overall in the number of patients requiring open surgery. Results: The authors found that excellent outcomes for microsurgical clipping compared with endovascular therapy can be achieved within the current climate. These and previously published data strongly support a continuing role for vascular neurosurgery as a subspecialist interest in combination with a dedicated endovascular service and a multidisciplinary team. Conclusions: Despite a trend to prefer coiling for ruptured aneurysms, the authors have shown that there is still a vital role for open surgery in the management of the ruptured and unruptured aneurysm. They consider the remaining role for surgery for arteriovenous malformations within the modern era of endovascular therapy.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14498/frame.html


Record #27 of 113
ID: CMR-12676
AU: Beyersmann J
AU: Gastmeier P
AU: Wolkewitz M
AU: Schumacher M
TI: An easy mathematical proof showed that time-dependent bias inevitably leads to biased effect estimation.
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2008
VL: 61
NO: 12
PG: 1216-21
AD: Freiburg Centre for Data Analysis and Modelling, Freiburg University, Freiburg, Germany. jan.beyersmann@fdm.uni-freiburg.de
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies - bias;CMRA9;CMRA7.1
AB: OBJECTIVE: Time-dependent bias occurs when future exposure status is analyzed as being known with start of observation. As this bias is common, we sought to determine whether it always leads to biased effect estimation. We also sought to determine the direction of the effect bias. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: We derived an easy mathematical proof investigating the nature of time-dependent bias. We applied the general mathematical result to data from a prospective cohort study on the incidence of hospital infection in intensive care: Here, we investigated the effect of time-dependent hospital infection status on intensive care unit stay. The nature of time-dependent bias was also illustrated graphically. RESULTS: Biased effect estimation is a mathematically inevitable consequence of time-dependent bias, because the number of individuals at risk of exposure is distorted over the course of time. In case of a time-dependent exposure that prolongs time until the study endpoint, the prolonging effect will be overestimated. CONCLUSION: Because time-dependent bias inevitably leads to erroneous findings, it is a major concern that it is common in the clinical literature. Time-dependent bias can be avoided by proper hazard-based analyses.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12676/frame.html


Record #28 of 113
ID: CMR-12441
AU: Zhang QW
AU: Chen XY
AU: Wang F
AU: Fan ZY
AU: Zhou Y
AU: Liu Y
AU: Wang HQ
AU: Dong XX
TI: A survey analysis of doctors' perceptions of difficulties in patient involvement in clinical decision making. Poster presentation at the 16th Cochrane Colloquium: Evidence in the era of globalisation; 2008 Oct 3-7; Freiburg, Germany [abstract]
SO: Zeitschrift fur Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualitat im Gesundheitswesen
YR: 2008
VL: 102
NO: Suppl VI
PG: 37
AD: Zhang QW, West China School of Medicine, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - patient involvement;CMRA3
AB: Background: In China, an estimated number of over 90% of patients would like to participate in shared decision making, especially when medical costs for health care falls on their shoulders. There has been a discussion of the attitude to patient involvement in clinical decision making, and its importance has been recognized. Objectives: To investigate the attitudes of clinical doctors towards the difficulties in patients involvement in clinical decision making and to analyze the factors that affect patient involvement. Methods: We developed a questionnaire with 10 questions. 273 questionnaires were distributed at random to the clinical doctors in West China Hospital, Sichuan University. Statistical software such as SPASS and MS Excel was applied to analyze the data. Results: A total number of 273 clinical doctors returned the questionnaires of which 259 had completed it (179 in-patient doctors, 80 outpatient doctors). The difficulties which the doctors were most concerned about focused on ten aspects: lack of time (69.50% in-patient doctors, 85.39% out-patient doctors); application of evidence to patient (77.14% in-patient doctors, 73.29% out-patient doctors); providing the best evidence (52.75% in-patient doctors, 65.53% out-patient doctors); providing the best treatment for patients (42.50% in-patient doctors, 63.07% out-patient doctors); communicating with patients (35.00% inpatient doctors, 45.46% out-patient doctors); diagnosing the disease (43.04% in-patient doctors, 67.23% out-patient doctors); eliciting the patients' values (51.90% in-patient doctors, 55.36% out-patient doctors); knowing the dangers of the treatments (51.25% in-patient doctors, 50.84% out-patient doctors); establishing stable alliances and relationships with patients (51.25% in-patient doctors, 60.45% out-patient doctors); cooperating with patients (55.00% in-patient doctors, 64.41% out-patient doctors). In most aspects, the in-patient and the out-patient doctors had the same attitude except in three aspects: satisfying the anticipations of patients; communicating with patients to understand their anticipations; and communicating to diagnose the disease correctly. Conclusions: From this study, we learned that doctors still have some difficulties in patient involvement. So some strategies should be developed.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12441/frame.html


Record #29 of 113
ID: CMR-12436
AU: Brunetti M
AU: Pregno A
AU: Oxman AD
AU: Liberati A
TI: Comparison of methods to evaluate the quality of evidence in resource studies: a pilot study. Oral presentation at the 16th Cochrane Colloquium: Evidence in the era of globalisation; 2008 Oct 3-7; Freiburg, Germany [abstract]
SO: Zeitschrift fur Evidenz, Fortbildung und Qualitat im Gesundheitswesen
YR: 2008
VL: 102
NO: Suppl VI
PG: 34
AD: Brunetti M, Local Health Unit, Modena, Italy
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA2
AB: Background: Identifying optimal allocation of available resources to maximise health is a key challenge of healthcare systems. A major problem limiting the use of economic evidence to inform decisions is the quality of economic evaluations, particularly estimates of effects and incremental differences in resource use that are used in economic models. Cochrane reviews can help to improve the use of economic evidence by providing evidence of incremental differences in resource use and assessments of the quality of that evidence, as well as estimates of effect. Objectives: To compare different methods of assessing the quality of evidence of differences in resources use in the context of a Cochrane review. Methods: For this pilot study, we used a Cochrane review of antibiotic prophylaxis to reduce respiratory tract infections and mortality in adults receiving intensive care. We identified included studies that reported resource use. One of us (MB) used a predefined protocol to extract data describing economic components of the studies applying the three methods proposed in the new Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions to evaluate the quality of economic evidence in Cochrane reviews (the Drummond, Evers and Philips checklists). We also assessed the risk of bias for outcomes in the included studies, including resource use, using the new Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. Results: The systematic review included 37 RCTs, of which 19 reported resource use. Six of these contained information on length of hospital stay only and 13 presented information on resource use and costs. The Philips checklist was not used since none of the included studies used economic modelling. We found differences between the quality evaluations using the Drummond and Evers checklists and the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. Conclusions: This pilot study showed differences between different methods for the evaluation of the quality of economic evidence. The advice in the current edition of the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions does not adequately support reviewers in deciding which checklist to use. This pilot study also suggests the importance for reviewers to be explicit about the lack of information on resource use which is common in primary studies.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12436/frame.html


Record #30 of 113
ID: CMR-12460
AU: Luke C
AU: Gill G
AU: Birrell S
AU: Humeniuk V
AU: Borg M
AU: Karapetis C
AU: Koczwara B
AU: Olver I
AU: Penniment M
AU: Pittman K
AU: Price T
AU: Walsh D
AU: Yeoh EK
AU: Roder D
TI: Treatment and survival from breast cancer: the experience of patients at South Australian teaching hospitals between 1977 and 2003.
SO: Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice
YR: 2007
VL: 13
NO: 2
PG: 212-20
AD: Epidemiology Branch, Department of Health, South Australian Government, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - dissemination - guidelines;CMRA3
AB: RATIONALE: Treatment guidelines recommend a more conservative surgical approach than mastectomy for early stage breast cancer and a stronger emphasis on adjuvant therapy. Registry data at South Australian teaching hospitals have been used to monitor survivals and treatment in relation to these guidelines. AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To use registry data to: (1) investigate trends in survival and treatment; and (2) compare treatment with guidelines. METHODS: Registry data from three teaching hospitals were used to analyse trends in primary courses of treatment of breast cancers during 1977-2003 (n=4671), using univariate analyses and multiple logistic regression. Disease-specific survivals were analysed using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimates and multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression. RESULTS: The 5-year survival was 79.9%, but with a secular increase, reaching 83.6% in 1997-2003. The relative risk of death (95% confidence limits) was 0.74 (0.62, 0.88) for 1997-2003, compared with previous diagnoses, after adjusting for tumour node metastasis stage, grade, age and place of residence. Treatment changes included an increase in conservative surgery (as opposed to mastectomy) from 51.7% in 1977-1990 to 76.8% in 1997-2003 for stage I (P<0.001) and from 31.1% to 52.2% across these periods for stage II (P<0.001). Adjuvant radiotherapy also became more common (P<0.001), with 20.6% of patients receiving this treatment in 1977-1990 compared with 60.7% in 1997-2003. Radiotherapy generally was more prevalent when conservative surgery was provided, although also relatively common in mastectomy patients when tumour diameters exceeded 50 mm or when there were four or more involved nodes. The proportion of patients receiving chemotherapy increased (P<0.001), from 19.6% in 1977-1990 to 36.9% in 1997-2003, and the proportion having hormone therapy also increased (P<0.001), from 34.3% to 59.4% between these periods. CONCLUSIONS: Survivals appear to be increasing and treatment trends are broadly consistent with guideline directions, and the earlier research on which these recommendations were based.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12460/frame.html


Record #31 of 113
ID: CMR-10122
AU: Stukel TA
AU: Fisher ES
AU: Wennberg DE
AU: Alter DA
AU: Gottlieb DJ
AU: Vermeulen MJ
TI: Analysis of observational studies in the presence of treatment selection bias: effects of invasive cardiac management on AMI survival using propensity score and instrumental variable methods.
SO: JAMA
YR: 2007
VL: 297
NO: 3
PG: 278-285
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies - bias;CMRA7.1
AB: CONTEXT: Comparisons of outcomes between patients treated and untreated in observational studies may be biased due to differences in patient prognosis between groups, often because of unobserved treatment selection biases. OBJECTIVE: To compare 4 analytic methods for removing the effects of selection bias in observational studies: multivariable model risk adjustment, propensity score risk adjustment, propensity-based matching, and instrumental variable analysis. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: A national cohort of 122,124 patients who were elderly (aged 65-84 years), receiving Medicare, and hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in 1994-1995, and who were eligible for cardiac catheterization. Baseline chart reviews were taken from the Cooperative Cardiovascular Project and linked to Medicare health administrative data to provide a rich set of prognostic variables. Patients were followed up for 7 years through December 31, 2001, to assess the association between long-term survival and cardiac catheterization within 30 days of hospital admission. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Risk-adjusted relative mortality rate using each of the analytic methods. RESULTS: Patients who received cardiac catheterization (n = 73 238) were younger and had lower AMI severity than those who did not. After adjustment for prognostic factors by using standard statistical risk-adjustment methods, cardiac catheterization was associated with a 50% relative decrease in mortality (for multivariable model risk adjustment: adjusted relative risk [RR], 0.51; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.50-0.52; for propensity score risk adjustment: adjusted RR, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.53-0.55; and for propensity-based matching: adjusted RR, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.52-0.56). Using regional catheterization rate as an instrument, instrumental variable analysis showed a 16% relative decrease in mortality (adjusted RR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.79-0.90). The survival benefits of routine invasive care from randomized clinical trials are between 8% and 21%. CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of the observational association of cardiac catheterization with long-term AMI mortality are highly sensitive to analytic method. All standard risk-adjustment methods have the same limitations regarding removal of unmeasured treatment selection biases. Compared with standard modeling, instrumental variable analysis may produce less biased estimates of treatment effects, but is more suited to answering policy questions than specific clinical questions.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10122/frame.html


Record #32 of 113
ID: CMR-13350
AU: Cantor SB
AU: Levy LB
AU: Cardenas-Turanzas M
AU: Basen-Engquist K
AU: Le T
AU: Beck JR
AU: Follen M
TI: Collecting direct non-health care and time cost data: application to screening and diagnosis of cervical cancer
SO: Medical Decision Making
YR: 2006
VL: 26
NO: 3
PG: 265-72
AD: Department of Biostatistics and Applied Mathematics, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030-4009, USA. sbcantor@mdanderson.org
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA7.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Data on direct non-health care and time costs are rarely collected, though the incorporation of such data is essential for performing cost-effectiveness analyses according to established guidelines. OBJECTIVES: To explore the challenges involved in collecting and analyzing these data from patients enrolled in a clinical trial. METHODS: Through the use of a pilot study, the authors designed a questionnaire to collect these costs. They used this questionnaire in a clinical trial conducted at a comprehensive cancer center and a public community hospital. Patients in the trial were undergoing screening or diagnostic procedures through a clinical protocol designed to measure the effectiveness of fluorescence and reflectance spectroscopy for detecting cervical precancers. Direct non-health care costs were adjusted to 2003 constant dollars. RESULTS: The authors successfully collected direct non-health care and time cost data, thus demonstrating the feasibility of acquiring such data. Compared to patients receiving diagnostic services for cervical cancer, those receiving screening services for the same condition in both settings incurred lower direct non-health care costs and time costs, as defined in the questionnaire. Compared to patients receiving either service at the comprehensive cancer center, those seeking either service at the public community hospital incurred lower direct non-health care costs and time costs. When outliers were removed, total direct non-health care costs and time costs substantially decreased for diagnostic patients in the comprehensive cancer center; total direct non-health care costs and time costs for other subgroups remained essentially unchanged. CONCLUSIONS: Direct non-health care and time cost data can be collected within a large-scale clinical trial. The setting (community v. specialty hospital) and population (patients receiving screening v. diagnostic examination) makes a difference regarding the cost totals. The order of magnitude of the final result depends on the context in which the non-health care and time cost data will be used.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-13350/frame.html


Record #33 of 113
ID: CMR-10078
AU: Shepherd J
AU: Bagnall A-M
AU: Colquitt J
AU: Dinnes J
AU: Duffy S
AU: Sowden A
TI: 'Sometimes similar, sometimes different': a systematic review of meta-analyses of random and non-randomized policy intervention studies [abstract]
SO: XIV Cochrane Colloquium; 2006 October 23-26; Dublin, Ireland.
YR: 2006
PG: 120
AD: Wessex Institute for Health Research and Development, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK. jps@soton.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies;CMRA2
AB: Background: While the randomized controlled trial (RCT) is generally regarded as the design of choice in health care, within public policy there is considerable debate about the suitability of RCTs and non-randomized studies (NRS). As the first stage of a study to explore effect sizes from comparable randomized and non-randomized policy evaluations, we conducted a systematic review of meta-analyses. Part Two of the study, which uses meta-regression, is reported separately (Thomas et al., submitted abstract). Objectives: To search for, assess and synthesise meta-analyses of policy interventions that have analysed RCTs and NRS separately. To describe the methods used by reviewers to identify factors other than the use of randomization that may have influenced the results of RCTs and NRS. Methods: Electronic databases were searched and meta-analyses screened for inclusion. Included meta-analyses underwent data extraction and critical appraisal using a web-based reviewing tool. Methods and results were tabulated and reported narratively. Results: Sixteen meta-analyses were included. The scope of the studies was broad, with diversity in interventions and study populations. The majority of interventions aimed to promote health in institutional (e.g. hospitals or schools) or community settings. Few explicitly aimed to assess differences between study designs. RCTs and NRS were judged to have similar results in five meta-analyses, and different results in eight (of which five reported larger effects for NRS). In three meta-analyses similarities and differences in results varied according to outcomes. Many of the meta-analyses did not investigate the potential role of effect modifiers that may confound differences between designs. Conclusions: This review of public policy interventions concurs with similar investigations in health care and in the social sciences, namely that RCTs and NRS are sometimes similar, and sometimes different in terms of results. In this sample, heterogeneity between designs makes it difficult to isolate the effect of randomization.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10078/frame.html


Record #34 of 113
ID: CMR-10142
AU: Luke TC
AU: Kilbane EM
AU: Jackson JL
AU: Hoffman SL
TI: Meta-analysis: convalescent blood products for Spanish influenza pneumonia: a future H5N1 treatment?
SO: Annals of Internal Medicine
YR: 2006
VL: 145
NO: 8
PG: 599-609
KY: CMR: Review methodology - systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA5.2
AB: BACKGROUND: Studies from the Spanish influenza era reported that transfusion of influenza-convalescent human blood products reduced mortality in patients with influenza complicated by pneumonia. Treatments for H5N1 influenza are unsatisfactory, and convalescent human plasma containing H5N1 antibodies could be an effective therapy during outbreaks and pandemics. PURPOSE: To determine whether transfusion with influenza-convalescent human blood products reduced the risk for death in patients with Spanish influenza pneumonia. DATA SOURCES: Manual search of English-language journals from 1918 to 1925. Citations from retrieved studies were also searched. STUDY SELECTION: Published English-language studies that had at least 10 patients in the treatment group, used convalescent blood products to treat Spanish influenza pneumonia in a hospital setting, and reported on a control or comparison group. DATA EXTRACTION: Two investigators independently extracted data on study characteristics, outcomes, adverse events, and quality. DATA SYNTHESIS: Eight relevant studies involving 1703 patients were found. Treated patients, who were often selected because of more severe illness, were compared with untreated controls with influenza pneumonia in the same hospital or ward. The overall crude case-fatality rate was 16% (54 of 336) among treated patients and 37% (452 of 1219) among controls. The range of absolute risk differences in mortality between the treatment and control groups was 8% to 26% (pooled risk difference, 21% [95% CI, 15% to 27%]). The overall crude case-fatality rate was 19% (28 of 148) among patients who received early treatment (after <4 days of pneumonia complications) and 59% (49 of 83) among patients who received late treatment (after > or =4 days of pneumonia complications). The range of absolute risk differences in mortality between the early treatment group and the late treatment group was 26% to 50% (pooled risk difference, 41% [CI, 29% to 54%]). Adverse effects included chill reactions and possible exacerbations of symptoms in a few patients. LIMITATIONS: Studies were few and had many methodologic limitations. No study was a blinded, randomized, or placebo-controlled trial. Some pertinent studies may have been missed. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with Spanish influenza pneumonia who received influenza-convalescent human blood products may have experienced a clinically important reduction in the risk for death. Convalescent human H5N1 plasma could be an effective, timely, and widely available treatment that should be studied in clinical trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10142/frame.html


Record #35 of 113
ID: CMR-10132
AU: Lahmann N
AU: Halfens RJ
AU: Dassen T
TI: Effect of non-response bias in pressure ulcer prevalence studies.
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2006
VL: 55
NO: 2
PG: 230-236
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - volunteer bias;CMRA7.1
AB: AIM: This paper reports a study to determine the prevalence of pressure ulcers in German hospitals and nursing homes for national and international comparison, and analyses the influence of non-response bias. BACKGROUND: Outcome rates are often used to evaluate provider performance. The prevalence of pressure ulcers is seen as a possible parameter of outcome healthcare quality. However, the results from different pressure ulcer prevalence studies cannot be compared, because there is no standardized methodology and terminology. Observed and published prevalence rates may reflect variations in quality of care, but differences could also relate to differences in case-mix or to random variation. METHODS: A point prevalence survey was carried out for 2002 and 2003 using data from 21,574 patients and residents in 147 different kinds of institutions throughout Germany. Participation rates and reasons for not participating in the study were documented. Non-responders were considered in different calculations to show the range of possible prevalence rate for a hypothetic 100% participation. RESULTS: In 2002 and 2003, the calculated prevalence rate (among participating persons at risk) in hospitals was 25.1% and 24.2% respectively, while in nursing homes it was 17.3% and 12.5% respectively. Non-response varied from 15.1% to 25.1%. The majority of non-responders in hospitals and nursing homes had not been willing to participate in the study. Based on different assumptions about the characteristics of the non-responders, we calculated minimum and maximum prevalence rates as if 100% participation was achieved. CONCLUSIONS: Calculating the non-response bias of prevalence rates is an inconvenient but necessary thing to do because its influence on calculated prevalence rates was high in this study. High participation rates in clinical studies will minimize non-response bias. If non-response cannot be avoided, the formula provided will help researchers calculate possible minimum and maximum prevalence rates for the total sample of both the responding and non-responding groups.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10132/frame.html


Record #36 of 113
ID: CMR-11831
AU: Orlandini A
AU: Diaz R
AU: Wojdyla D
AU: Pieper K
AU: Werf F
AU: Granger CB
AU: Harrington RA
AU: Boersma E
AU: Califf RM
AU: Armstrong P
AU: White H
AU: Simes J
AU: Paolasso E
TI: Outcomes of patients in clinical trials with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction among countries with different gross national incomes.
SO: European Heart Journal
YR: 2006
VL: 27
NO: 5
PG: 527-33
KY: CMR: Review methodology - study identification - language bias - national bias;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - random allocation;CMRA3
AB: AIMS: To evaluate whether there is an association between 30-day mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) included in clinical trials and country gross national income (GNI). METHODS AND RESULTS: A retrospective analysis of the databases of five randomized trials including 50 310 patients with STEMI (COBALT 7169, GIK-2 2931, HERO-2 17,089, ASSENT-2 17,005, and ASSENT-3 6116 patients) from 53 countries was performed. Countries were divided into three groups according to their GNI based on the World Bank data: low (less than 2900 US dollars), medium (between 2900 US dollars and 9000 US dollars), and high GNI (more than 9000 US dollars per capita). Baseline characteristics, in-hospital management variables, and 30-day outcomes were evaluated. A previously defined logistic regression model was used to adjust for differences in baseline characteristics and to predict mortality. The observed mortality was higher than the predicted mortality in the low (12.1 vs. 11.8%) and in the medium income groups (9.4 vs. 7.9%), whereas it was lower in the high income group (4.9 vs. 5.6%). CONCLUSION: An inverse relationship between mortality and GNI was observed in STEMI clinical trials. Most of the variability in mortality can be explained by differences in baseline characteristics; however, after adjustment, lower income countries have higher mortality than the expected.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11831/frame.html


Record #37 of 113
ID: CMR-11816
AU: Guarino P
AU: Lamping DL
AU: Elbourne D
AU: Carpenter J
AU: Peduzzi P
TI: A brief measure of perceived understanding of informed consent in a clinical trial was validated.
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2006
VL: 59
NO: 6
PG: 608-14
KY: CMR: Other methodology - ethics of trials;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To develop and evaluate an Informed Consent Questionnaire (ICQ) for measuring self-reported perceived understanding of informed consent in a randomized clinical trial. METHODS: The study was embedded in a Department of Veterans Affairs randomized clinical trial of Gulf War veterans' illnesses (CSP#470). The trial was initiated in May 1999 at 20 hospitals and concluded in September 2001; 1,092 participants were enrolled and followed for 12 months. The reliability and validity sample included 1,086 participants evaluated at baseline, 906 at 3 months, 929 at 6 months, and 910 at 12 months. The psychometric evaluations included tests of acceptability (based on missing data, endorsement frequencies, and floor/ceiling effects), item reduction, internal consistency, and construct validity (based on Cronbach's alpha coefficients, item-total correlations, and principal components analysis). RESULTS: The ICQ had >5% missing information on some questions at baseline, indicating poor acceptability prior to the initiation of the trial; however, the scale had good acceptability at each of the follow-up visits. Psychometric evaluation following standard item reduction techniques confirmed the reliability and validity of a four-item subscale of the ICQ (ICQ-4). CONCLUSIONS: The ICQ-4 is a simple and psychometrically sound self-report measure of perceived understanding of informed consent. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Guarino P, Elbourne D, Carpenter J, Peduzzi P. Consumer involvement in consent document development: a multicenter cluster randomized trial to assess study participants' understanding. Clinical Trials 2006;3(1):19-30. Guarino P, Elbourne D, Carpenter J, Peduzzi P. Consumer involvement in consent document development: a multicenter cluster randomized trial to assess study participants' understanding [abstract]. Clinical Trials 2006;3:199. Peduzzi P, Guarino P, Donta ST, Engel CC Jr, Clauw DJ, Feussner JR. Research on informed consent: investigator-developed versus focus group-developed consent documents, a VA cooperative study. Controlled Clinical Trials 2002;23(2):184-97.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11816/frame.html


Record #38 of 113
ID: CMR-7565
AU: Woloshynowych M
AU: Rogers S
AU: Taylor-Adams S
AU: Vincent C
TI: The investigation and analysis of critical incidents and adverse events in healthcare.
SO: Health Technology Assessment (Winchester, England)
YR: 2005
VL: 9
NO: 19
PG: 1-158
KY: CMR: Other methodology - adverse effects;CMRA1;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES: To carry out a review of published and unpublished work on the analysis on methods of accident investigation in high-risk industries, and of critical incidents in healthcare. To develop and pilot guidelines for the analysis of critical incidents in healthcare for the hospital sector, mental health and primary care. DATA SOURCES: Literature already available in the Clinical Risk Unit, University College London. Work by known experts in the field of accident investigation and analysis. Electronic databases including PsycINFO and MEDLINE. Websites for accident investigation reports. REVIEW METHODS: Twelve techniques from other high-risk industries were reviewed in detail using criteria developed for the purpose. This review provided a conceptual framework for the healthcare review and appraisal process, as well as providing a critical assessment of the industry techniques. Rigorous searching and screening identified 138 papers for formal appraisal and a further 114 were designated as providing potentially useful background information. A formal appraisal instrument was designed, piloted and modified until acceptable reliability was achieved. From the 138 papers, six techniques were identified as representing clearly definable approaches to incident investigation and analysis. All relevant papers were reviewed for each of the six techniques: Australian Incident Monitoring System, the Critical Incident Technique, Significant Event Auditing, Root Cause Analysis, Organisational Accident Causation Model and Comparison with Standards approach. RESULTS: All healthcare techniques had the potential of being applied in any specialty or discipline related to healthcare. While a few studies looked solely at death as an outcome, most used a variety of outcomes including near misses. Most techniques used interviewing and primary document review to investigate incidents. All techniques included papers that identified clinical issues and some attempt to assess underlying errors, causes and contributory factors. However the extent and sophistication of the various attempts varied widely. Only a third of papers referred to an established model of accident causation. In most studies examined there was little or no information on the training of investigators, how the data was extracted or any information on quality assurance for data collection and analysis. There was some variation in the level of expertise and training required but to undertake the investigation to an acceptable depth all required some expertise. In most papers there was little or no discussion of implementation of any changes as a result of the investigations. A quarter of publications gave some description of the implementation of changes, though few addressed evaluation of changes. CONCLUSIONS: The reviews demonstrate that, while much valuable work has been accomplished, there is considerable potential for further development of techniques, the utilisation of a wider range of techniques and a need for validation and evaluation of existing methods which would make incident investigation more versatile and use limited resources more effectively. Further exploration of techniques used in high-risk industries, with interviews and observation of actual investigations should prove valuable. Existing healthcare techniques would benefit from formal evaluation of their outcomes and effectiveness. Studies should examine depth of investigation and analysis, adequacy and feasibility of recommendations and cost effectiveness. Examining implementation of recommendations is a key issue.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-7565/frame.html


Record #39 of 113
ID: CMR-8858
AU: Townsley C
AU: Pond GR
AU: Peloza B
AU: Kok J
AU: Naidoo K
AU: Dale D
AU: Herbert C
AU: Holowaty E
AU: Straus S
AU: Siu LL
TI: Analysis of treatment practices for elderly cancer patients in Ontario, Canada.
SO: Journal of Clinical Oncology
YR: 2005
VL: 23
NO: 16
PG: 3802-10
AD: Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Hospital, University Health Network, 610 University Ave, Ste 5-210, Toronto, Ontario, M5G 2M9, Canada
KY: CMR: Other methodology - gender, age or race bias;CMRA3
AB: PURPOSE: Older patients are underrepresented in many areas of cancer services utilization and in clinical trial enrollment. This study evaluates whether age, when adjusted for sex, comorbidity, stage, tumor site, geography, and time period, is predictive of cancer treatment practice. METHODS: First, we used the Ontario Cancer Registry (OCR) to examine for any apparent differences in treatment practices between elderly (> or = 70 years) and younger patients in the last three decades. Second, we performed a chart review of 1,505 patients with lung, breast, and colorectal cancers seen in Ontario either at an urban center, the Princess Margaret Hospital, or at a rural center, the Northwestern Regional Cancer Centre. Patients were randomly selected from two time periods, 1977 to 1978 and 1997; and the study population was to comprise at least 50% elderly patients. RESULTS: OCR data demonstrated that, in some settings, such as colorectal cancer, the proportions of elderly cancer patients who were referred to cancer centers and who received any cancer treatment were lower than their younger counterparts. The chart review data showed that increasing age was a significant negative predictor for receiving any cancer treatment (P < .001, multivariate analysis) and for having a clinical trial discussion with the treating specialist (P < .001, multivariate analysis). CONCLUSION: Independent of other factors, older age is consistently a cause of disparity in cancer treatment practice and in clinical trial discussion with patients. By increasing the accrual rate of elderly cancer patients in clinical trials, a better understanding of appropriate therapies for this patient population can be obtained and may, thereby, impact on their cancer-related morbidity and mortality.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8858/frame.html


Record #40 of 113
ID: CMR-8635
AU: Neumayer LA
AU: Gawande AA
AU: Wang J
AU: Giobbie-Hurder A
AU: Itani KM
AU: Fitzgibbons RJ
AU: Reda D
AU: Jonasson O
TI: Proficiency of surgeons in inguinal hernia repair: effect of experience and age.
SO: Annals of Surgery
YR: 2005
VL: 242
NO: 3
PG: 344-8; dis
AD: VA Salt Lake City Health Care System, University of Utah Health Sciences Center, Salt Lake City, UT 84148, USA. leigh.neumayer@hsc.utah.edu
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - multi-centre trials;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - learning curves;CMRA6.1
AB: OBJECTIVES: We examined the influence of surgeon age and other factors on proficiency in laparoscopic or open hernia repair. SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: In a multicenter, randomized trial comparing open and laparoscopic herniorrhaphies, conducted in Veterans Administration hospitals (CSP 456), we reported significant differences in recurrence rates (RR) for the laparoscopic procedure as a result of surgeons' experience. We have also reported significant differences in RR for the open procedure related to resident postgraduate year (PGY) level. METHODS: We analyzed data from unilateral laparoscopic and open herniorrhaphies from CSP 456 (n = 1629). Surgeon's experience (experienced > or =250 procedures; inexperienced <250), surgeon's age, median PGY level of the participating resident, operation time, and hospital observed-to-expected (O/E) ratios for mortality were potential independent predictors of RR. RESULTS: Age was dichotomized into older (> or =45 years) and younger (<45 years). Surgeon's inexperience and older age were significant predictors of recurrence in laparoscopic herniorrhaphy. The odds of recurrence for an inexperienced surgeon aged 45 years or older was 1.72 times that of a younger inexperienced surgeon. For open repairs, although surgeon's age and operation time appeared to be related to recurrence, only median PGY level of <3 was a significant independent predictor. CONCLUSION: This analysis demonstrates that surgeon's age of 45 years and older, when combined with inexperience in laparoscopic inguinal herniorrhaphies, increases risk of recurrence. For open repairs, only a median PGY level of <3 was a significant risk factor.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8635/frame.html


Record #41 of 113
ID: CMR-8846
AU: Baldwin LM
AU: Dobie SA
AU: Billingsley K
AU: Cai Y
AU: Wright GE
AU: Dominitz JA
AU: Barlow W
AU: Warren JL
AU: Taplin SH
TI: Explaining black-white differences in receipt of recommended colon cancer treatment.
SO: Journal of the National Cancer Institute
YR: 2005
VL: 97
NO: 16
PG: 1211-20
AD: Department of Family Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-4982, USA. lmb@fammed.washington.edu
KY: CMR: Other methodology - gender, age or race bias;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: Black-white disparities exist in receipt of recommended medical care, including colorectal cancer treatment. This retrospective cohort study examines the degree to which health systems (e.g., physician, hospital) factors explain black-white disparities in colon cancer care. METHODS: Data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program; Medicare claims; the American Medical Association Masterfile; and hospital surveys were linked to examine chemotherapy receipt after stage III colon cancer resection among 5294 elderly (> or = 66 years of age) black and white Medicare-insured patients. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify factors associated with black-white differences in chemotherapy use. All statistical tests were two-sided. RESULTS: Black and white patients were equally likely to consult with a medical oncologist, but among patients who had such a consultation, black patients were less likely than white patients (59.3% versus 70.4%, difference = 10.9%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 5.1% to 16.4%, P < .001) to receive chemotherapy. This black-white disparity was highest among patients aged 66-70 years (black patients 65.7%, white patients 86.3%, difference = 20.6%, 95% CI = 10.7% to 30.4%, P < .001) and decreased with age. The disparity among patients aged 66-70 years also remained statistically significant in the regression analysis. Overall, patient, physician, hospital, and environmental factors accounted for approximately 50% of the disparity in chemotherapy receipt among patients aged 66-70 years; surgical length of stay and neighborhood socioeconomic status accounted for approximately 27% of the disparity in this age group, and health systems factors accounted for 12%. CONCLUSIONS: Black and white Medicare-insured colon cancer patients have an equal opportunity to learn about adjuvant chemotherapy from a medical oncologist but do not receive chemotherapy equally. Little disparity was explained by health systems; more was explained by illness severity, social support, and environment. Further qualitative research is needed to understand the factors that influence the lower receipt of chemotherapy by black patients.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8846/frame.html


Record #42 of 113
ID: CMR-9703
AU: Badger F
AU: Werrett J
TI: Room for improvement? Reporting response rates and recruitment in nursing research in the past decade.
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2005
VL: 51
NO: 5
PG: 502-10
AD: School of Health Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. f.j.badger@bham.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - scales and checklists - non-trials;CMRA3
AB: AIMS: This paper reports an analysis of recruitment and response rates in published nursing research in three peer reviewed nursing journals in 2002. We wished to establish if the deficits in reporting nursing research identified a decade earlier had been addressed. BACKGROUND: This analysis was informed by our personal experiences of research which produced widely differing response rates. An examination of the literature revealed a lack of consensus on desirable response rates in nursing research. Previous analyses have shown deficits in describing participants, sampling methods and reporting recruitment. METHODS: Papers reporting empirical research in three nursing journals in 2002 were reviewed in terms of a number of variables including research methodology, respondent type, recruitment method, response rate, location, and data collection method. Nominal coding was used as necessary. Data were analysed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences and a variety of descriptive statistics were employed. RESULTS: Half of the papers did not report a response rate. Of those which did, over three-quarters of both qualitative and quantitative studies had response rates of 60% or more. Research conducted in hospital and educational settings produced higher response rates than those in community settings. Studies with response rates of less than 60% did not always refer to their rates in the study limitations, and low response rates do not appear to be a barrier to publication. CONCLUSION: Reporting of sampling, recruitment and response rates in nursing research must be improved to support nursings' claim to be an evidence-based profession and to underpin clinical governance requirements. Only through improvements in the quality of nursing research publications can knowledge be extended and a better-informed research community be created.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9703/frame.html


Record #43 of 113
ID: CMR-12783
AU: Jenkinson C
AU: Burton JS
AU: Cartwright J
AU: Magee H
AU: Hall I
AU: Alcock C
AU: Burge S
TI: Patient attitudes to clinical trials: development of a questionnaire and results from asthma and cancer patients.
SO: Health Expectations
YR: 2005
VL: 8
NO: 3
PG: 244-52
AD: Department of Public Health, University of Oxford, Headington, Oxford, UK. crispin.jenkinson@hmc.ox.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - attitudes to trials;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To develop a questionnaire to assess patients' views of clinical trials, and to report the results from the questionnaire in two patient groups: asthma and cancer. DESIGN: A 43 item questionnaire asking patients about their views to clinical trials was developed on the basis of interviews with trialists and focus groups with patients. The questionnaire was mailed to patients with a diagnosis of either asthma or cancer. A set of items was then selected, via statistical analyses, to form the core of the questionnaire. PARTICIPANTS: Patients with a diagnosis of cancer in one NHS Hospital Trust, and patients with a diagnosis of asthma in two NHS Hospital Trusts. RESULTS: Completed questionnaires were received from 353 cancer patients and 578 asthma patients. Factor analyses of the data indicated that 22 items contributed to five dimensions: 'positive beliefs', 'safety', 'information needs', 'negative expectations' and 'patient involvement'. Differences between asthma and cancer patients on these dimensions were small. A regression of these dimension scores against a variable asking if patients would be willing to take part in trials found that 'safety' and 'information needs' did not contribute significantly to the model for either asthma or cancer patients. CONCLUSIONS: A questionnaire has been developed for use in assessing patients' views towards clinical trials. Results from the surveys reported here suggest that patient views about the importance of trials and beliefs about the value of patient involvement are likely to be predictive of whether or not patients will agree to take part in a study.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12783/frame.html


Record #44 of 113
ID: CMR-8391
AU: Meine TJ
AU: Patel MR
AU: DePuy V
AU: Curtis LH
AU: Rao SV
AU: Gersh BJ
AU: Schulman KA
AU: Jollis JG
TI: Evidence-based therapies and mortality in patients hospitalized in December with acute myocardial infarction.[summary for patients in Ann Intern Med. 2005 Oct 4;143(7):I21; PMID: 16204156]
SO: Annals of Internal Medicine
YR: 2005
VL: 143
NO: 7
PG: 481-485
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: Previous studies suggest that patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction (MI) in December have poor outcomes, and some studies have hypothesized that the cause may be the infrequent use of evidence-based therapies during the December holiday season. OBJECTIVE: To compare the care and outcomes of patients with acute MI hospitalized in December and patients hospitalized during other months. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of data from the Cooperative Cardiovascular Project. SETTING: Nonfederal, acute care hospitals in the United States. PATIENTS: 127 959 Medicare beneficiaries hospitalized between January 1994 and February 1996 with confirmed acute MI. MEASUREMENTS: Use of aspirin, beta-blockers, and reperfusion therapy (thrombolytic therapy or percutaneous coronary intervention), and 30-day mortality. RESULTS: When the authors controlled for patient, hospital, and physician characteristics, the use of evidence-based therapies was not significantly lower but 30-day mortality was higher (21.7% vs. 20.1%; adjusted odds ratio, 1.07 [95% CI, 1.02 to 1.12]) among patients hospitalized in December. LIMITATIONS: This was a nonrandomized, observational study. Unmeasured characteristics may have contributed to outcome differences. CONCLUSIONS: Thirty-day mortality rates were higher for Medicare patients hospitalized with acute MI in December than in other months, although the use of evidence-based therapies was not significantly lower.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8391/frame.html


Record #45 of 113
ID: CMR-7681
AU: Jolly K
AU: Lip GY
AU: Taylor RS
AU: Mant JW
AU: Lane DA
AU: Lee KW
AU: Stevens AJ
TI: Recruitment of ethnic minority patients to a cardiac rehabilitation trial: the Birmingham Rehabilitation Uptake Maximisation (BRUM) study [ISRCTN72884263]
SO: BMC Medical Research Methodology
YR: 2005
VL: 5
NO: 1
PG: 18
AD: Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, England. C.B.Jolly@bham.ac.uk.
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMR: Other methodology - race and ethnicity in research;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Concerns have been raised about low participation rates of people from minority ethnic groups in clinical trials. However, the evidence is unclear as many studies do not report the ethnicity of participants and there is insufficient information about the reasons for ineligibility by ethnic group. Where there are data, there remains the key question as to whether ethnic minorities more likely to be ineligible (e.g. due to language) or decline to participate. We have addressed these questions in relation to the Birmingham Rehabilitation Uptake Maximisation (BRUM) study, a randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing a home-based with a hospital-based cardiac rehabilitation programme in a multi-ethnic population in the UK. METHODS: Analysis of the ethnicity, age and sex of presenting and recruited subjects for a trial of cardiac rehabilitation in the West-Midlands, UK. PARTICIPANTS: 1997 patients presenting post-myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. DATA COLLECTED: Exclusion rates, reasons for exclusion and reasons for declining to participate in the trial by ethnic group. RESULTS: Significantly more patients of South Asian ethnicity were excluded (52% of 'South Asian' v 36% 'White European' and 36% 'Other', p < 0.001). This difference in eligibility was primarily due to exclusion on the basis of language (i.e. the inability to speak English or Punjabi). Of those eligible, similar proportions were recruited from the different ethnic groups (white, South Asian and other). There was a marked difference in eligibility between people of Indian, Pakistani or Bangladeshi origin. CONCLUSION: Once eligible for this trial, people from different ethnic groups were recruited in similar proportions. The reason for ineligibility in the BRUM study was the inability to support the range of minority languages.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-7681/frame.html


Record #46 of 113
ID: CMR-8630
AU: Peelen L
AU: Keizer NF
AU: Peek N
AU: Bosman RJ
AU: Scheffer GJ
AU: Jonge E
TI: Influence of entry criteria on mortality risk and number of eligible patients in recent studies on severe sepsis.
SO: Critical Care Medicine
YR: 2005
VL: 33
NO: 10
PG: 2178-83
AD: Department of Medical Informatics, Academic Medical Center-Universiteit van Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To understand the impact of patient selection criteria used in recent sepsis trials on baseline mortality risk and number of eligible patients. DESIGN: Observational cohort study, with retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data. METHODS AND MAIN RESULTS: Using a MEDLINE search, we selected recent randomized controlled trials in patients with severe sepsis and studied the mortality rate in the control groups of these trials. Nine articles fulfilled the search criteria and were used in our analyses. The 28-day mortality rate in the control groups of these trials varied between 28.0% and 89.0%. Differences in this mortality rate might be due to the use of different entry criteria but also to other factors that vary between the trials. To eliminate the influence of these confounding factors when studying the effect of the use of entry criteria on baseline mortality risk and number of eligible patients, we projected the entry criteria of these nine trials on a large independent database of >70,000 Dutch intensive care patients admitted between 1996 and 2003. This yielded nine groups of patients who would have been eligible for the respective trials. The percentage of patients who would have been eligible for these trials varied between 1.5% and 6.0%. Six of these groups had a similar intensive care mortality rate (between 25.0% and 28.9%). The projection of the entry criteria of the three other trials onto the database resulted in groups of patients with considerably higher intensive care mortality. For in-hospital mortality rate in these groups, similar results were found. CONCLUSIONS: The majority of the trials we studied used entry criteria that select patients with a similar mortality risk. This suggests that differences in baseline mortality risk reported in recent sepsis trials are to be attributed to other factors that vary between trials rather than to differences in entry criteria. However, entry criteria do have an important influence on the number of eligible patients for sepsis trials without influencing baseline mortality rate.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8630/frame.html


Record #47 of 113
ID: CMR-12357
AU: Lange DH
AU: Aufenacker TJ
AU: Roest M
AU: Simmermacher RK
AU: Gouma DJ
AU: Simons MP
TI: Inguinal hernia surgery in The Netherlands: a baseline study before the introduction of the Dutch Guidelines.
SO: Hernia
YR: 2005
VL: 9
NO: 2
PG: 172-7
AD: Department of Surgery, Slotervaart Ziekenhuis, Louwesweg 6, 1066 EC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - dissemination - guidelines;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: In 2003 the Dutch Guidelines for treatment of inguinal hernia (IH) were published. For treatment of IH in adults, the evidence-based guidelines recommend the use of a mesh repair technique. In order to be able to evaluate the effects of these guidelines, a baseline analysis of inguinal hernia surgery before the introduction of these guidelines had to be performed. The second analysis will be performed two years (January-March 2005) after the publication of the Guidelines. OBJECTIVE: To make an inventory of IH surgery in the Netherlands, before the introduction of guidelines for IH treatment, to serve as a baseline for future evaluation of the impact of the implementation of these guidelines. METHODS: A retrospective descriptive study was performed in 2003 using patient and operation charts including IH repairs performed in The Netherlands over a three-month period (January-March 2001). RESULTS: 97/133 (73%) hospitals cooperated with the study, generating data from a total of 4386 IH in 3979 patients (3284 adults, 695 children). Mesh techniques were used in 2839 (78%) adult inguinal hernias while 800 (22%) patients were treated with non-mesh techniques. 484 (14.7%) adult patients were operated on during the study period for a recurrent hernia from previous years. Early recurrence (<1 year) occurred in 2.2% of all patients. Wound infection was documented in 0.8% of all IH. The mortality rate was 0.1%. 1257 of the 3284 (38.3%) adults, and 566 of the 695 children (81.4%), were operated on in ambulatory care. CONCLUSIONS: In the episode prior to implementation of the Dutch evidence-based Guidelines for treatment of inguinal hernia, 2839 (78%) adult patients were treated with mesh repair and 484 (13.3%) patients were treated for a recurrent hernia.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12357/frame.html


Record #48 of 113
ID: CMR-9705
AU: Tsai SL
AU: Chai SK
TI: Developing and validating a nursing website evaluation questionnaire.
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2005
VL: 49
NO: 4
PG: 406-13
AD: Nursing, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. sltsai@vghtpe.gov.tw
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - internet;CMRA3
AB: AIM: The aim of this paper is to report on the development and validation of an evaluation questionnaire for nursing websites. BACKGROUND: Increasing numbers of the general public and health care professionals are using the Internet to access health and health care-related information. The quality of such websites, therefore, needs to be evaluated. METHODS: A total of 24 websites in the United States and Taiwan, including websites in 13 leading schools and 11 hospitals, were selected as test websites. A total of 120 participants with Master's degrees in either nursing or mechanical engineering were invited to examine the 24 websites using a nursing website evaluation questionnaire. A 32-item questionnaire was developed, covering overall impression, download and switch speed, accessibility and convenience, web page content, service function and compatibility with common browsers. Participants were requested to connect to the specific websites and browse the contents before filling in the questionnaire. The results were arranged into 12 different sequences and prepared on a CD using Macromedia Dreamweaver. Data were analysed using Cronbach's alpha, Guttman split-half reliability and factor analysis. FINDINGS: Internal consistency was good, with a Cronbach's alpha of 0.93 in Part I and a KR-20 (Kuder Richardson) of 0.85 in Part II. Four factors given in Part I were identified as content truth, accessibility and convenience, speed and connection, and overall impression. CONCLUSION: The nursing website evaluation questionnaire had good construct validity and internal consistency.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9705/frame.html


Record #49 of 113
ID: CMR-7588
AU: Joseph L
AU: Belisle P
AU: Tamim H
AU: Sampalis JS
TI: Selection bias found in interpreting analyses with missing data for the prehospital index for trauma.
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2004
VL: 57
NO: 2
PG: 147-53
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - missing data;CMRA3;CMRA4
AB: OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of missing data on analyses of data from trauma databases, and to verify whether commonly used techniques for handling missing data work well in theses settings. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Measures of trauma severity such as the Pre-Hospital Index (PHI) are used for triage and the evaluation of trauma care. As conditions of trauma patients can rapidly change over time, estimating the change in PHI from the arrival at the emergency room to hospital admission is important. We used both simulated and real data to investigate the estimation of PHI data when some data are missing. Techniques compared include complete case analysis, single imputation, and multiple imputation. RESULTS: It is well known that complete case analyses and single imputation methods often lead to highly misleading results that can be corrected by multiple imputation, an increasingly popular method for missing data situations. In practice, unverifiable assumptions may not hold, meaning that it may not be possible to draw definitive conclusions from any of the methods. CONCLUSION: Great care is required whenever missing data arises. This is especially true in trauma databases, which often have much missing data and where the data may not missing at random.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-7588/frame.html


Record #50 of 113
ID: CMR-9795
AU: Ross L
AU: Thomsen BL
AU: Boesen EH
AU: Johansen C
TI: In a randomized controlled trial, missing data led to biased results regarding anxiety.
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2004
VL: 57
NO: 11
PG: 1131-7
AD: Institute of Cancer Epidemiology, Danish Cancer Society, Strandboulevarden 49, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. ross@cancer.dk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - missing data;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - multi-centre trials;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Randomization does not protect against bias due to missing observations. In addition, different reasons for missing observations may lead to different invalid results. The purpose of this study was to illustrate how randomized intervention studies can be threatened by bias due to missing observations because of death or nonresponse. METHODS: A randomized clinical trial of the effect of psychosocial intervention on well-being after an operation for colorectal cancer was conducted in Denmark. Patients were interviewed 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after discharge from hospital. RESULTS: We found that the probability of nonresponse decreased with increasing anxiety score in the intervention group, but it increased with increasing anxiety score in the control group. This could lead to severe bias in an analysis of the effect of intervention on anxiety. Low physical functioning and low global health status and quality of life were related to an increased probability of dying before the next follow-up, and this association could explain the associations between anxiety and depression, respectively, and the probability of dying observed in crude analyses. CONCLUSION: Our study emphasizes the importance of performing specific missing data analyses in any study of well-being variables.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9795/frame.html


Record #51 of 113
ID: CMR-11386
AU: Morris MC
AU: Nadkarni VM
AU: Ward FR
AU: Nelson RM
TI: Exception from informed consent for pediatric resuscitation research: community consultation for a trial of brain cooling after in-hospital cardiac arrest.
SO: Pediatrics
YR: 2004
VL: 114
NO: 3
PG: 776-81
AD: Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care Medicine, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. mcm2113@columbia.edu
KY: CMR: Other methodology - ethics of trials;CMRA6.1
AB: OBJECTIVES: When prospective informed consent is not feasible, clinical research that presents more than minimal risk can proceed only after a community consultation and public disclosure process and the granting of exception from informed consent from the federal government. The applicability of exception from informed consent to pediatric resuscitation research has not been described. The objectives of this study were 1) to perform a community consultation and public disclosure process specific to a trial of induced hypothermia immediately after pediatric cardiac arrest and 2) to determine the applicability of exception from informed consent to randomized, controlled trials of emergency interventions after resuscitation from inpatient pediatric cardiac arrest. METHODS: Focus groups, information sheets with options for written responses, posted notices, e-mails, and telephone conversations with parents of critically ill children and hospital staff were conducted at a tertiary care children's hospital. Data were stored, organized, and retrieved using NVivo qualitative analysis software (QSR International). RESULTS: In focus groups (n = 8), parents (n = 23) and hospital staff (n = 33) concluded that prospective informed consent is not feasible for a trial of induced hypothermia after inpatient pediatric cardiac arrest. Focus group participants endorsed exception from informed consent for a trial of induced hypothermia but only if study information is easily available prospectively and if all parents have an explicit opportunity to decline participation in a verbal conversation before study enrollment. Separate from and without knowledge of the focus group results, 7 (100%) of 7 parents of past or current patients and 21 (50%) of 42 hospital staff who provided written opinions endorsed exception from informed consent for this study. Five (12%) of 42 hospital staff opposed, and 16 (38%) of 42 were neutral. In telephone conversations, 14 (70%) of 20 parents of children who were previously resuscitated from cardiac arrest endorsed exception from informed consent for this study, 3 (15%) of 20 opposed, and 3 (15%) of 20 were unsure. CONCLUSIONS: Community consultation for inpatient resuscitation research can be conducted in a children's hospital, with hospital staff and parents of patients as the relevant community. Exception from informed consent is necessary and appropriate for a randomized trial of induced hypothermia begun within 30 minutes after pediatric cardiac arrest. A process in which families are informed prospectively and have a pre-enrollment option to decline participation will likely be acceptable to families, health care providers, and the institution.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11386/frame.html


Record #52 of 113
ID: CMR-9707
AU: Jones ML
TI: Application of systematic review methods to qualitative research: practical issues.
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2004
VL: 48
NO: 3
PG: 271-8
AD: School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN, South Yorkshire, UK. m.lloydjones@sheffield.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - qualitative data;CMRA5.1
AB: AIM: This paper explores practical methodological issues which arise from the application of systematic review and meta-synthesis techniques to qualitative research studies in the context of a pragmatic health services research question. BACKGROUND: The emphasis on, and volume of, qualitative research is increasing. As a result, there is a need to integrate and disseminate qualitative research findings. However, relatively little has been written about the methodology of systematically reviewing and meta-synthesizing qualitative research studies, and about the practical issues which arise in the course of these processes. METHODS: A systematic review and meta-synthesis was undertaken of qualitative research studies reporting data relevant to the pragmatic health services research question: "What factors facilitate or impede role development and/or effective practice as a clinical nurse specialist, nurse practitioner, advanced nurse practitioner or consultant nurse based in acute hospital settings?" FINDINGS: The identification of relevant studies is substantially more time-consuming than the identification of relevant studies for a systematic review of randomized controlled trials. A substantially larger proportion of papers has to be retrieved for full reading. Articles with unclear titles which lack abstracts cannot be dismissed as irrelevant. Study appraisal and data analysis, being iterative processes, are also more time-consuming than the appraisal and meta-analysis of quantitative studies. It may be possible to reduce the frustrations inherent in the distance between the reviewer and the participants in the primary research by using full project reports rather than published articles. CONCLUSIONS: Conducting a systematic review and meta-synthesis of qualitative research studies is a rewarding but demanding activity, and adequate time and resources must be made available. Some recommendations are made which may facilitate those processes.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9707/frame.html


Record #53 of 113
ID: CMR-6492
AU: Juurlink DN
AU: Mamdani MM
AU: Lee DS
AU: Kopp A
AU: Austin PC
AU: Laupacis A
AU: Redelmeier DA
TI: Rates of hyperkalemia after publication of the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study
SO: New England Journal of Medicine
YR: 2004
VL: 351
NO: 6
PG: 543-551
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA2
AB: BACKGROUND: The Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study (RALES) demonstrated that spironolactone significantly improves outcomes in patients with severe heart failure. Use of angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors is also indicated in these patients. However, life-threatening hyperkalemia can occur when these drugs are used together. METHODS: We conducted a population-based time-series analysis to examine trends in the rate of spironolactone prescriptions and the rate of hospitalization for hyperkalemia in ambulatory patients before and after the publication of RALES. We linked prescription-claims data and hospital-admission records for more than 1.3 million adults 66 years of age or older in Ontario, Canada, for the period from 1994 through 2001. RESULTS: Among patients treated with ACE inhibitors who had recently been hospitalized for heart failure, the spironolactone-prescription rate was 34 per 1000 patients in 1994, and it increased immediately after the publication of RALES, to 149 per 1000 patients by late 2001 (P<0.001). The rate of hospitalization for hyperkalemia rose from 2.4 per 1000 patients in 1994 to 11.0 per 1000 patients in 2001 (P<0.001), and the associated mortality rose from 0.3 per 1000 to 2.0 per 1000 patients (P<0.001). As compared with expected numbers of events, there were 560 (95 percent confidence interval, 285 to 754) additional hyperkalemia-related hospitalizations and 73 (95 percent confidence interval, 27 to 120) additional hospital deaths during 2001 among older patients with heart failure who were treated with ACE inhibitors in Ontario. Publication of RALES was not associated with significant decreases in the rates of readmission for heart failure or death from all causes. CONCLUSIONS: The publication of RALES was associated with abrupt increases in the rate of prescriptions for spironolactone and in hyperkalemia-associated morbidity and mortality. Closer laboratory monitoring and more judicious use of spironolactone may reduce the occurrence of this complication.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-6492/frame.html


Record #54 of 113
ID: CMR-9791
AU: Perneger TV
AU: Ricou B
AU: Boulvain M
AU: Bovier PA
AU: Herrmann FR
AU: Perrier A
AU: Burnand B
TI: Medical researchers evaluate their methodological skills.
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 2004
VL: 57
NO: 12
PG: 1323-9
AD: Quality of Care Unit, Geneva University Hospitals, CH-1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland. Thomas.perneger@hcuge.ch
KY: CMR: Other methodology - training and support;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Clinical epidemiology and statistics skills of clinical researchers are often limited. We assessed methodological skills of medical researchers and identified factors associated with higher skill levels. METHODS: In a cross-sectional mail survey at two Swiss teaching hospitals, participants (N=409) rated their ability to perform 26 research-related activities, such as identifying the research question, selecting a study design, computing the required sample size, performing data analysis, and reporting results. RESULTS: The proportion of respondents who were able to perform a specific activity was 33.2% on average, ranging from 1.5% for "numerical statistics (bootstrap, simulation, cross-validation,...)" to 76.0% for "oral presentation of results." The overall skill level (expressed as a percentage of the 26 activities) was associated with principal investigator experience (+8.7%), greater percentage of time devoted to research (+12.4% for near full-time versus no time commitment), years of research experience (+17.6% for 15-40 years versus 0 years), past number of clinical research projects (+18.0% for 15-230 projects versus 0-1 projects), and hours of formal methodological training (+32.6% for 200-1200 hours versus 0-9 hours). CONCLUSION: Self-reported methodological skills were generally modest. The most important covariates of skill levels were current time commitment to research, past experience, and formal training.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9791/frame.html


Record #55 of 113
ID: CMR-14133
AU: Spath HM
AU: Charavel M
AU: Morelle M
AU: Carrere MO
TI: A qualitative approach to the use of economic data in the selection of medicines for hospital formularies: a French survey
SO: Pharmacy World & Science
YR: 2003
VL: 25
NO: 6
PG: 269-75
AD: GRESAC, UMR 5823 du CNRS, Centre Leon Berard, Institut des Sciences Pharmaceutiques et Biologiques, Universite Lyon 1, Lyon, France. doucey@lyon.fnclcc.fr
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: Qualitative interviews were conducted with pharmacists in hospitals and clinics in the Rhone-Alpes region of France to determine the role of economic data when selecting medicines for formularies, to identify barriers to the use of this information and to study to what degree a healthcare establishment's financing system influences the use of this data. METHOD: A stratified sample of healthcare establishments with over 100 short-stay beds were included: (1) thirteen public and semi-private hospitals financed through annual global budgets and (2) six private clinics financed on a fee-for-service basis. Interviews were carried out between October 1999 and January 2000, and coded independently by two researchers. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: A multiple correspondence analysis was performed to compare the two groups of healthcare establishments. RESULTS: The influence of economic data in the decision-making process is limited, for other factors appear to have greater weight: (1) efficacy and safety of medicines (2) relations between decision-makers and the pharmaceutical industry and (3) patient quality of life. Economic data used was mainly related to medication prices and quantities consumed. This data was used in a large number of decisions and seemed to have more importance in hospitals than in clinics. Information related to resources that could be saved by the inclusion of a new medicine on formularies was seldom used and apparently considered less important in hospitals than in clinics. Pharmacoeconomic evaluations were very rarely used. Six barriers to the use of economic data were raised by the pharmacists, including: lack of time, which limits the collection and analysis of such information; insufficient health economics training, an obstacle to decision-makers' analytical capacity; and closed budgets within hospitals. CONCLUSION: Economic data concerning 'medication budgets' appears to have a greater impact in public and semi-private hospitals than in private clinics. Obstacles linked to the decision-making context itself were particularly highlighted, and it can be concluded that in order to increase the use of economic data, it is first necessary to create an environment that is more favourable to its application.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-14133/frame.html


Record #56 of 113
ID: CMR-4877
AU: Williams JG Cheung WY Cohen DR Hutchings HA Longo MF Russell IT
TI: Can randomised trials rely on existing electronic data? A feasibility study to explore the value of routine data in health technology assessment.
SO: Health Technology Assessment (Winchester, England)
YR: 2003
VL: 7
NO: 26
PG: 1-117
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - general;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVES: To estimate the feasibility, utility and resource implications of electronically captured routine data for health technology assessment by randomised controlled trials (RCTs), and to recommend how routinely collected data could be made more effective for this purpose. DATA SOURCES: Four health technology assessments that involved patients under care at five district general hospitals in the UK using four conditions from distinct classical specialties: inflammatory bowel disease, obstructive sleep apnoea, female urinary incontinence, and total knee replacement. Patient-identifiable, electronically stored routine data were sought from the administration and clinical database to provide the routine data. REVIEW METHODS: Four RCTs were replicated using routine data in place of the data already collected for the specific purpose of the assessments. This was done by modelling the research process from conception to final writing up and substituting routine for designed data activities at appropriate points. This allowed a direct comparison to be made of the costs and outcomes of the two approaches to health technology assessment. The trial designs were a two-centre randomised trial of outpatient follow-up; a single-centre randomised trial of two investigation techniques; a three-centre randomised trial of two surgical operations; and a single-centre randomised trial of perioperative anaesthetic intervention. RESULTS: Generally two-thirds of the research questions posed by health technology assessment through RCTs could be answered using routinely collected data. Where these questions required analysis of NHS resource use, data could usually be identified. Clinical effectiveness could also be judged, using proxy measures for quality of life, provided clinical symptoms and signs were collected in sufficient detail. Patient and professional preferences could not be identified from routine data but could be collected routinely by adapting existing instruments. Routine data were found potentially to be cheaper to extract and analyse than designed data, and they also facilitate recruitment as well as have the potential to identify patient outcomes captured in remote systems that may be missed in designed data collection. The study confirmed previous evidence that the validity of routinely collected data is suspect, particularly in systems that are not under clinical and professional control. Potential difficulties were also found in identifying, accessing and extracting data, as well as in the lack of uniformity in data structures, coding systems and definitions. CONCLUSIONS: Routine data have the potential to support health technology assessment by RCTs. The cost of data collection and analysis is likely to fall, although further work is required to improve the validity of routine data, particularly in central returns. Better knowledge of the capability of local systems and access to the data held on them is also essential. Routinely captured clinical data have real potential to measure patient outcomes, particularly if the detail and precision of the data could be improved.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4877/frame.html


Record #57 of 113
ID: CMR-8400
AU: Jaffar S
AU: Leach A
AU: Smith PG
AU: Cutts F
AU: Greenwood B
TI: Effects of misclassification of causes of death on the power of a trial to assess the efficacy of a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in The Gambia.
SO: International Journal of Epidemiology
YR: 2003
VL: 32
NO: 3
PG: 430-436
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - survival data;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: A reduction in cause-specific mortality may be the most important public health measure of the efficacy of a new vaccine. However, in developing countries, assignment of causes of deaths occurring outside hospitals can be assessed often only through the questioning of relatives about the signs and symptoms leading to death ('post-mortem questionnaire'). Causes assigned in this way have poor sensitivity and specificity. We illustrate the effects of this misclassification on the power of a large trial of a pneumococcal polysaccharide/protein conjugate vaccine with a mortality endpoint. METHODS: Required sample sizes to achieve a study with specified power were calculated for all-cause and acute lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI) mortality for different levels of sensitivity and specificity of post-mortem questionnaires. Data from active community-based surveillance and post-mortem questionnaires collected 1989-1993 from the study area were used in the calculations. FINDINGS: The mortality rate among children aged 6-29 months from all causes was 34.2 per 1000 child-years; 19% of deaths were attributable to ALRI. Assuming that pneumococci would be responsible for 50% of ALRI deaths and that the vaccine would cover 70% of disease serotypes and would be 90% effective against these serotypes, the expected efficacy of the vaccine would be 6.0% (19% x 50% x 70% x 90%) against all causes combined and 31.5% (50% x 70% x 90%) against deaths from ALRI. If, as suggested by various reports, the sensitivity and specificity of assigning a death to ALRI by post-mortem questionnaire are about 40% and 90% respectively, then the observed vaccine efficacy against ALRI (as classified using the post-mortem questionnaire) would fall to 20%, and the power to detect this would be reduced by approximately 40%. Furthermore, low sensitivity of diagnosis would lead to a falsely low estimate of the burden of ALRI mortality in the population and the trial might have greater power to detect a reduction in mortality from all causes combined than that estimated at the outset. CONCLUSIONS: Low sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis by post-mortem questionnaire may mean that the power of a trial to detect a reduction in all-cause mortality is similar to that to detect a reduction in ALRI mortality. Since the latter is more susceptible to bias from misclassification of cause of death, all-cause mortality may be the most suitable endpoint. Similar considerations apply to trials of interventions against other diseases for which a cause-specific endpoint is subject to substantial misclassification.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8400/frame.html


Record #58 of 113
ID: CMR-13973
AU: Ankem K
TI: Influence of information sources on the adoption of uterine fibroid embolization by interventional radiologists
SO: Journal of the Medical Library Association
YR: 2003
VL: 91
NO: 4
PG: 450-9
AD: Library and Information Science Program, Wayne State University, 106 Kresge, Detroit, MI 48202, USA. k.ankem@wayne.edu
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Other methodology - information retrieval - general;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the research was to (1) understand the influence of information sources on the awareness and adoption of uterine fibroid embolization (UFE) by interventional radiologists in Michigan and (2) to decipher communication relations in the social network of interventional radiologists that were most conducive to the flow of information about UFE. METHODS: Diffusion of innovations theory and constructs in social network analysis formed the basis for the development of an interview guide. Thirty-two interventional radiologists in Michigan were interviewed over the phone. Chi-square statistics were employed to analyze the awareness and adoption of UFE. Factor analysis was applied to decipher important communication relations in the social network of interventional radiologists. RESULTS: Conferences were found to be an initial source of information, creating awareness among early adopters (P < 0.05), but other individuals were found to be influential sources in the adoption of UFE by later adopters (P < 0.05). Radiologists rarely browsed Websites for information. Work relations in everyday clinical practice were the communication relations most conducive to the flow of information about UFE. Preliminary qualitative data indicated that opinion leaders in the diffusion of UFE in Michigan were located in hospitals primarily dedicated to practice rather than in hospitals affiliated with universities. CONCLUSIONS: Journals are important information sources for creating awareness and stimulating adoption of innovation among both early and late adopters of new procedures in interventional radiology. Conferences, however, are significantly more important for creating early awareness, while interactions with colleagues is the most important factor in stimulating use of the innovation among later adopters. Among colleagues, opinion leaders in nonacademic hospitals may be more influential than individuals in the academic community.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-13973/frame.html


Record #59 of 113
ID: CMR-4895
AU: Townsend J Buxton M Harper G
TI: Prioritisation of health technology assessment. The PATHS model: methods and case studies [review]
SO: Health Technology Assessment (Winchester, England)
YR: 2003
VL: 7
NO: 20
PG: 1-82
KY: CMR: Other methodology - timing and choice of research questions;CMRA9
AB: OBJECTIVES: To develop a method of economic evaluation and triage for research prioritisation, before the funding decision. DATA SOURCES: Existing models were researched focusing on MEDLINE, HealthSTAR, IBSS and HEED. REVIEW METHODS: Papers of primary relevance that included a proposed model were reviewed in detail, and their models appraised using criteria adapted from the EUR-ASSESS project and the authors' previous experience. From this the PATHS model was developed. It assumes three or more possible alternative outcomes or scenarios in terms of research results: 'favourable' to the technology being assessed, 'unfavourable' or 'inconclusive'. An associated flow of benefits or disbenefits, costs or savings is identified for each potential research outcome depending on the likely implementation of the results as judged by experts. These benefits and costs are weighted and discounted in the model to give an expected incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (EICER). EICERS could be estimated for any number of research areas or proposals to inform funding prioritisation. The model was tested and evaluated on three case studies identified in liaison with the NHS R&D HTA programme and the UK Medical Research Council. These case studies were funded research projects, where full evaluation was underway and where results would be reported during the PATHS project. The studies were selected to include surgery or other invasive procedures, and non-invasive health services projects (a fourth case study did not complete during the course of the study). The three case studies included randomised controlled trials of early surgery or observation for small abdominal aortic aneurysms, infusion protocols for adult pre-hospital care, and postnatal midwifery support. RESULTS: Each of the three assessments indicated net clinical benefit or no clinical loss of benefit, in addition to health service cost savings in excess of the cost of the trial. For two case studies, the value of the proposed trial, as evaluated by the model in the prediction, was consistent with the ex post evaluation, thus providing positive tests of the value of the model. In the third case meaningful ex post analysis was not possible as very poor compliance with the trial protocol (indicated in the ex ante evaluation) seriously undermined its conclusions. During the study, at the request of the UK HTA programme, the model was also applied to a funding request for a large randomised trial of beta-interferon for multiple sclerosis treatment. CONCLUSION: The PATHS model has a useful part to play in the research prioritisation process. Its strengths lie in its emphasis on the impact of research results on policy and practice (the keystone for NHS research) and net effects on health benefits and costs. It assesses the cost-effectiveness of the research and may identify ways to enhance the research design, endpoints relevant to implementation, analytical methods and dissemination. Further research is recommended to investigate the scope for synthesising the strengths of the PATHS model with other approaches including value of information; to compare ex ante and immediate ex post assessments of implementation with long term follow-up of actual implementation; and to assess the robustness of such approaches to the choice and number of experts used. [References: 98]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4895/frame.html


Record #60 of 113
ID: CMR-4561
AU: Higginson IJ
AU: Finlay I
AU: Goodwin DM
AU: Cook AM
AU: Hood K
AU: Edwards AG
AU: Douglas HR
AU: Norman CE
TI: Do hospital-based palliative teams improve care for patients or families at the end of life?
SO: Journal of Pain & Symptom Management
YR: 2002
VL: 23
NO: 2
PG: 96-106
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - qualitative data;CMRA5.1
AB: To determine whether hospital-based palliative care teams improve the process or outcomes of care for patients and families at the end of life, a systematic literature review was performed employing a qualitative meta-synthesis and quantitative meta-analysis. Ten databases were searched. This was augmented by hand searching specific journals, contacting authors, and examining the reference lists of all papers retrieved. Studies were included if they evaluated palliative care teams working in hospitals. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers. Studies were graded using two independent hierarchies of evidence. A Signal score was used to assess the relevance of publications. Two analyses were conducted. In a qualitative meta-synthesis data were extracted into standardized tables to compare relevant features and findings. In quantitative meta-analysis we calculated the effect size of each outcome (dividing the estimated mean difference or difference in proportions by the sample's standard deviation). Nine studies specifically examined the intervention of a hospital-based palliative care team or studies. A further four studies considered interventions that included a component of a hospital or support team, although the total intervention was broader. The nature of the interventions varied. The studies were usually in large teaching hospitals, in cities, and mainly in the United Kingdom. Outcomes considered symptoms, quality of life, time in hospital, total length of time in palliative care, or professional changes, such as prescribing practices. Only one of the studies was a randomized controlled trial and this considered a hospital team as part of other services. Most method scores indicated limited research quality. Comparison groups were subject to bias and the analyses were not adjusted for confounding variables. In addition, there were problems of attrition and small sample sizes. Nevertheless, all studies indicated a small positive effect of the hospital team, except for one study in Italy, which documented deterioration in patient symptoms. The Signal scores indicated that the studies were relevant. No study compared different models of hospital team. This review suggests that hospital-based palliative care teams offer some benefits, although this finding should be interpreted with caution. The study designs need to be improved and different models of providing support at the end of life in hospital need comparison. Standardized outcome measures should be used in such research and in practice.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4561/frame.html


Record #61 of 113
ID: CMR-4789
AU: Moore RA
AU: Gavaghan DJ
AU: Edwards JE
AU: Wiffen P
AU: McQuay HJ
TI: Pooling data for Number Needed to Treat: no problems for apples
SO: BMC Medical Research Methodology
YR: 2002
VL: 2
NO: 1
PG: 2
AD: Pain Research & Nuffield Department of Anaesthetics, University of Oxford, Oxford Radcliffe Hospital, The Churchill, Headington, Oxford, UK. andrew.moore@pru.ox.ac.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - general;CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - risk communication;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To consider the problem of the calculation of number needed to treat (NNT) derived from risk difference, odds ratio, and raw pooled events shown to give different results using data from a review of nursing interventions for smoking cessation. DISCUSSION: A review of nursing interventions for smoking cessation from the Cochrane Library provided different values for NNT depending on how NNTs were calculated. The Cochrane review was evaluated for clinical heterogeneity using L'Abbe plot and subsequent analysis by secondary and primary care settings.Three studies in primary care had low (4%) baseline quit rates, and nursing interventions were without effect. Seven trials in hospital settings with patients after cardiac surgery, or heart attack, or even with cancer, had high baseline quit rates (25%). Nursing intervention to stop smoking in the hospital setting was effective, with an NNT of 14 (95% confidence interval 9 to 26). The assumptions involved in using risk difference and odds ratio scales for calculating NNTs are discussed. SUMMARY: Clinical common sense and concentration on raw data helps to detect clinical heterogeneity. Once robust statistical tests have told us that an intervention works, we then need to know how well it works. The number needed to treat or harm is just one way of showing that, and when used sensibly can be a useful tool. http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1471-2288-2-2.pdf.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4789/frame.html


Record #62 of 113
ID: CMR-4020
AU: Verhagen AP
AU: Vet HCW
AU: Vermeer F
AU: Widdershoven JWMG
AU: Bie RA
AU: Kessels AGH
AU: Boers M
AU: Brandt
TI: The influence of methodological quality on the conclusion of a landmark meta-analysis on thrombolytic therapy [abstract]
SO: 4th Symposium on Systematic Reviews: Pushing the Boundaries; 2002 Jul 2-4; Oxford, UK.
YR: 2002
AD: Dr A Verhagen, Department of General Practice, Erasmus University, PO Box 1732, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Tel: 31 10 402 2109. Fax: 31 10 402 9491. Email: verhagen@hag.lgg.eur.nl
KY: CMR: Critical appraisal - trials;CMRA5.1
AB: Objective: We studied the influence of the methodological quality of individual trials on the outcome of a landmark meta-analysis on thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Because this metaanalysis is regarded valid by Egger et al. and two large trials studying the same intervention confirmed their conclusions, these conclusions are used as a kind of 'gold standard' outcome in this study. Data source: Studies included in the meta-analysis of Yusuf et al. (Eur Heart J. 1985; 6: 556-85). We performed data-extraction and quality assessment on full papers only. Data extraction:. From each study we extracted the number of patients in both groups who died in hospital or during follow-up. Methodological quality was assessed using the Delphi list. Data synthesis: We first re-calculated pooled Odds Ratios (ORs), and 95% confidence intervals, on the studies found and compared them with the original results of Yusuf et al. Next we incorporated the results of quality assessment in five different ways in the calculation of the pooled ORs: a) component analysis on the methodological items: randomisation, blinding, withdrawals and analysis; b) visual plot of the individual ORs against the quality score; c) quality score as a 'threshold score' for inclusion of the study in the pooling; d) quality score as a 'weighting factor' in the statistical pooling; e) cumulative pooling using quality scores as the input sequence. Results & Conclusion: No correlation between quality scores and ORs was found. Studies with a proper description of the different quality components provided an estimate close to the 'gold standard' treatment effect found by Yusuf et al. No major differences were found between the results of the five different methods of incorporating the quality scores into the final conclusion. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Verhagen AP, de Vet HC, Vermeer F, Widdershoven JW, de Bie RA, Kessels AG, Boers M, van den Brandt PA. The influence of methodologic quality on the conclusion of a landmark meta-analysis on thrombolytic therapy. International Journal of Technology Assessment in Health Care 2002;18(1):11-23.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4020/frame.html


Record #63 of 113
ID: CMR-12800
AU: Loh WY
AU: Butow PN
AU: Brown RF
AU: Boyle F
TI: Ethical communication in clinical trials. Issues faced by data managers in obtaining informed consent.
SO: Cancer
YR: 2002
VL: 95
NO: 11
PG: 2414-21
AD: Medical Psychology Unit 1, University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia. wloh@gmp.usyd.edu.au
KY: CMR: Other methodology - ethics of trials;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: Informed consent has been proposed as the optimal method for ensuring the ethical entry of patients into clinical trials. However, it is known that problems with informed consent exist from the perspective of both patients and physicians. This has led to the suggestion that a third party, such as a research nurse or data manager, should be responsible for obtaining informed consent. The objective of this study was to explore the views of data managers concerning the nature, challenges, and rewards of their role and the similarities and differences between their role and that of physicians in obtaining informed consent. METHODS: Four focus groups in three large teaching hospitals were conducted. Twenty-one data managers who were involved in cancer or pain clinical trials participated. The focus groups were audiotaped, transcribed, and subjected to content analysis to identify themes. RESULTS: Data managers identified three primary roles complementary to that of physicians: information provision, quality assurance of the informed consent process, and ongoing support during the trial. Despite expressed concern that medical and drug company interests may lead to subtle coercion of the patient, participants did not support the notion that they may be solely responsible for the consent process. Participants described a range of ethical dilemmas they confronted, including patients asking them for medical details they could not provide and situations in which they felt that informed consent was compromised in some way, for example, dealing with situations in which the patient appeared to be entering the trial for the wrong reasons due to misunderstanding, need, or passivity. Effective functioning of the multidisciplinary team assisted data managers in performing their role. A range of training needs were identified, particularly communication skills training and trial start-up briefing. CONCLUSIONS: The issues raised by these data managers have important implications for the successful conduct of clinical trials, particularly the need for an integrated, multidisciplinary approach at all levels of the informed-consent process.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12800/frame.html


Record #64 of 113
ID: CMR-4014
AU: Sitter H
AU: Nies C
AU: Krack W
AU: Celik I
AU: Pruente H
AU: Lorenz W
TI: Influence of trial design on validity of trial results for cholecystectomy trials.
SO: 4th Symposium on Systematic Reviews: Pushing the Boundaries; 2002 Jul 2-4; Oxford, UK.
YR: 2002
AD: : Dr H Sitter, Institute of Theoretical Surgery, Philipps-University,Baldingerstarsse, 35033 Marburg, Germany. Tel: 6421 286 231. Fax: 6421 286 8926. Email: sitter@mailer.uni-marburg.de
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology: relationship to trial quality;CMRA5.1
AB: To study the correlation between quality of trials and validity of trial results for clinical studies omparing endoscopic and conventional cholecystectomy (EC and CC). Methods: Medline and reference lists were searched for defined keywords. The quality of each trial was assessed by 2 independent researchers. For the randomised trials (RTs) the Jadad-score (max. of 5 points) as well as the Evans-Pollock-score for surgical studies (max. of 100 points) were determined. In a random-effects model the pooled odds ratio (OR) for the postoperative complication rate and the mean difference (MD) in length of hospital stay was calculated, and a sensitivity analysis was performed. Results: 20,637 articles with the relevant keywords lead to a final data pool of 69 trials (with randomised, concurrent, historical control group). Of these 19 were randomised. There was only one doubleblind study. The table shows OR for complications and MD for days in hospital. OR<1 indicates an advantage for EC, but all confidence intervals (CI) include 1. The only double-blind trial showed no significant difference in complication rate as well as hospital stay. Conclusions: The higher the quality of the studies, the smaller the difference bet-ween EC and CC. If we assume that complication rate influences length of hospital stay, then the difference in hospital days seems artificial.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4014/frame.html


Record #65 of 113
ID: CMR-11718
AU: Weiss JP
AU: Parsons LS
AU: Every NR
AU: Weaver WD
AU: Hlatky MA
TI: Does enrollment in a randomized clinical trial lead to a higher cost of routine care?
SO: American Heart Journal
YR: 2002
VL: 143
NO: 1
PG: 140-4
AD: Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif 94305-5405, USA.
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - general;CMRA6.1
AB: BACKGROUND: Reimbursement for the routine care of patients enrolled in clinical trials is controversial. Our objective was to determine the added medical costs, if any, associated with enrollment in a randomized clinical trial. METHODS: We analyzed data from the Myocardial Infarction Triage and Intervention (MITI) Trial (1988-1991) and the registry of all patients admitted to 19 Seattle area coronary care units (1988-1993). The major trial entry criteria were age 35 to 71 years, symptom duration 15 minutes to 6 hours, and acute myocardial infarction on electrocardiogram. The trial group consisted of 264 of 324 randomized patients who received thrombolytics and had available cost data. From 11,932 registry patients, we identified a control group who met trial entry criteria but who were not enrolled because of logistic barriers or presentation outside the trial enrollment period, 335 of whom received thrombolytics and had available cost data. The groups were compared for total cost for initial hospitalization, with and without multivariable adjustment for baseline characteristics. RESULTS: Total hospital cost was not different between trial patients (median $11,516) and control subjects (median $14,200) (trial/control mean cost ratio 0.91 [95% CI 0.82-1.02]). Participation in the trial had an insignificant effect on costs in the multivariable model (cost ratio 1.04, 95% CI 0.95-1.16). Significant predictors of cost included hospital of admission, length of stay, and coronary revascularization procedures. CONCLUSION: Participation in the MITI randomized trial had no effect on the cost of routine care.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11718/frame.html


Record #66 of 113
ID: CMR-9717
AU: Borbasi S
AU: Hawes C
AU: Wilkes L
AU: Stewart M
AU: May D
TI: Measuring the outputs of Australian nursing research published 1995-2000.
SO: Journal of Advanced Nursing
YR: 2002
VL: 38
NO: 5
PG: 489-97
AD: School of Nursing and Midwifery, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. sally.borbasi@flinders.edu.au
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - history and epidemiology of evaluations;CMRA3
AB: AIMS: To analyse the research published in refereed nursing journals by Australian authors from 1995 to 2000. BACKGROUND: Analysis of the research topics and types of methodologies used by Australian nurse researchers has not been recently undertaken. The study was similar to an analysis of United Kingdom (UK) nursing research between 1988 and 1995 to allow comparison between the two countries. DESIGN: A quantitative approach analysed the research abstracts for the topic researched, source of data, location of data collection, paradigm and methodology used and funding source. RESULTS: A total of 509 articles from 11 generalist Australian and UK nursing journals were analysed. The highest numbers of articles were published in Australian Journal of Advanced Nursing and Journal of Advanced Nursing. The most popular topics were education of nurses (18.7%, n=95) and practice issues relating to patient care (15.3%, n=78). However, scant attention was paid to major Australian health issues. Most research was undertaken in the hospital setting (55.8%, n=247). Data were most often drawn from nurses themselves (40.7%, n=206), followed by patients (25.5%, n=129). Both quantitative (41%, n=203) and qualitative approaches (47%, n=230) were employed. A minority of studies acknowledged any funding (14.9%, n=76). CONCLUSIONS: Research findings need to be applied in practice to improve patient care. Nurse researchers need to publish their findings and align their research interests to meet national health priorities. They need to be involved in setting these health priorities to ensure that nursing has a place in health research.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-9717/frame.html


Record #67 of 113
ID: CMR-5046
AU: Yamaguchi T
AU: Ohashi Y
AU: Matsuyama Y
TI: Proportional hazards models with random effects to examine centre effects in multicentre cancer clinical trials.
SO: Statistical Methods in Medical Research
YR: 2002
VL: 11
NO: 3
PG: 221-236
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - multi-centre trials;CMRA4
AB: In randomized clinical trials comparing treatment effects on diseases such as cancer, a multicentre trial is usually conducted to accrue the required number of patients within a reasonable period of time. The fundamental point of conducting a multicentre trial is that all participating investigators must agree to follow the common study protocol. However, even with every attempt having been made to standardize the methods for diagnosing severity of disease and evaluating response to treatment, for example, they might be applied differently at different centres, and these may vary from comprehensive cancer centres to university hospitals to community hospitals. Therefore, in multicentre trials there is likely to be some degree of variation (heterogeneity) among centres in both the baseline risks and the treatment effects. While we estimate the overall treatment effect using a summary measure such as hazard ratio and usually interpret it as an average treatment effect over the centre, it is necessary to examine the homogeneity of the observed treatment effects across centres, that is, treatment-by-centre interaction. If the data are reasonably consistent with homogeneity of the observed treatment effects across centres, a single summary measure is adequate to describe the trial results and those results will contribute to the scientific generalization, the process of synthesizing knowledge from observations. On the other hand, if heterogeneity of treatment effects is found, we should carefully interpret the trial results and investigate the reason why the variation is seen. In the analyses of multicentre trials, a random effects approach is often used to model the centre effects. In this article, we focus on the proportional hazards models with random effects to examine centre variation in the treatment effects as well as the baseline risks, and review the parameter estimation procedures, frequentist approach-penalized maximum likelihood method--and Bayesian approach--Gibbs sampling method. We also briefly review the models for bivariate responses. We present a few real data examples from the biometrical literature to highlight the issues.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-5046/frame.html


Record #68 of 113
ID: CMR-8711
AU: Koyama H
AU: Matsui K
AU: Goto M
AU: Sekimoto M
AU: Maeda K
AU: Morimoto T
AU: Hira K
AU: Fukui T
TI: In-patient interventions supported by results of randomized controlled trials in Japan.
SO: International Journal for Quality in Health Care
YR: 2002
VL: 14
NO: 2
PG: 119-25
AD: Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University Hospital and Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto City, Japan. hkoyama@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To determine to what extent the results of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) support medical interventions for in-patients at the department of general medicine of a university hospital in Japan. DESIGN: Retrospective analysis. By reviewing discharge summaries, two physicians first independently decided on patients' respective primary problems at admission and up to two secondary problems. Next, up to five interventions for the primary problem and one intervention for each of the secondary problems were selected. Differences of opinion (if any) between the two physicians regarding these selected interventions were resolved by discussion. MEDLINE and/or the Cochrane Library were used as data sources for literature regarding the selected interventions. SETTING: A ward of the department of general medicine of a Japanese university hospital, 1995-1997. MAIN MEASURES: The proportion of therapeutic interventions supported by RCT results and associated meta-analyses. RESULTS: For the primary problems, 103 (48.8%) of the 211 most important interventions were supported by the results of RCTs, as were 47.8% of all the interventions including the most important and the adjunctive ones. Furthermore, 56.2% of the most important interventions for the secondary problems were also supported by the RCT results. CONCLUSIONS: Approximately half of the therapeutic interventions performed at an academic medical in-patient unit in Japan were RCT-supported. This was true not only for the most important interventions for primary problems but also for the adjunct interventions for the primary problems and the interventions for secondary problems.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8711/frame.html


Record #69 of 113
ID: CMR-6791
AU: Tadmouri GO
AU: Tadmouri NB
TI: Biomedical research in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (1982-2000)
SO: Saudi Medical Journal
YR: 2002
VL: 23
NO: 1
PG: 20-24
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - history and epidemiology of evaluations;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: Because of the leading position of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in biomedical research among the Arab States, we aimed this study at providing a detailed analysis of the development of this domain in the Kingdom. METHODS: More than 1500 queries were mainly directed to the PubMed bibliographic database. Tags, boolean operators, and wild cards were utilized. RESULTS: Most of the Saudi biomedical citations originated from the capital city of Riyadh (70%), particularly from the King Saud University (29.5%) and King Faisal Specialist Hospital (21.5%). One of every 5 Saudi papers either describes a disease, a blood related analysis, or surgical observations. Only 0.5% of Saudi papers appear in the 200 highest impact-factor journals. CONCLUSION: A steady advancement in biomedical research is observed in the Kingdom mainly in years 1987-1996. The absence of uniformity in writing the addresses of authors in published articles from Saudi Arabia results in misleading data about the geographical distribution of biomedical research and sometimes improper rating of the scientific institutions in the Kingdom. The most dynamic biomedical fields in the Kingdom observed in the present analysis are Hematology, Surgery, Cancer, Pharmacology, and Microbiology. The main reasons behind the small number of Saudi papers appearing in high impact-factor journals are the bias and the economics of scientific publishing. We hope that the present study will lay the foundation for more detailed investigations on the directions of biomedical research in the Kingdom and will be of great importance to better found future strategies in this important realm.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-6791/frame.html


Record #70 of 113
ID: CMR-11530
AU: Majumdar SR
AU: Chang WC
AU: Armstrong PW
TI: Do the investigative sites that take part in a positive clinical trial translate that evidence into practice?
SO: American Journal of Medicine
YR: 2002
VL: 113
NO: 2
PG: 140-5
AD: Division of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. me2.majumdar@alberta.ca
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - follow-up;CMRA6.1
AB: PURPOSE: The earliest awareness of new evidence should beat the trial sites that first generated the evidence. We hypothesized that sites that had taken part in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement (SAVE) trial, which demonstrated that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors were beneficial following myocardial infarction, would be more likely to adopt their use in this group of patients. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of data collected for the 25,886 North American patients with myocardial infarction enrolled in the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO-1) study from 1990 to 1993. Patients were treated at 659 hospitals, 22 of which had also taken part in SAVE. One third of patients were enrolled after SAVE was published in 1992. The primary outcome was use of an ACE inhibitor at discharge. We analyzed the data using hierarchical models and multivariate regression. RESULTS: Patients treated at sites that had taken part in SAVE were not more likely to receive an ACE inhibitor at discharge than were patients treated at non-SAVE sites (226/1415 [16%] vs. 3671/24,471 [15%]; odds ratio [OR] = 1.1; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.8 to 1.4; P = 0.67). Although patients with heart failure were more likely to receive ACE inhibitors than were those without heart failure, there was no difference between SAVE and non-SAVE sites (90/297 [30%] vs. 1322/4405 [30%]; P = 0.75). Use of ACE inhibitors increased following the publication of the SAVE trial, but again there was no significant difference in adoption of the drug between SAVE and non-SAVE sites. CONCLUSION: Sites that had taken part in SAVE were no more likely to adopt ACE inhibitors for patients with myocardial infarction than were sites that had not taken part. If those who generated the evidence are slow to translate it into practice, it is unlikely that passive forms of dissemination can improve the quality of care. To accelerate adoption of new evidence, we need to understand factors other than knowledge and awareness that influence practice.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-11530/frame.html


Record #71 of 113
ID: CMR-10151
AU: Sutton AJ
AU: Abrams KR
AU: Jones DR
TI: An illustrated guide to the methods of meta-analysis.
SO: Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice
YR: 2001
VL: 7
NO: 2
PG: 135-148
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - quantitative methods - general;CMRA4
AB: Meta-analysis is now accepted as a necessary tool for the evaluation of health care. Such analyses have been carried out in virtually every area of medicine to evaluate a wide spectrum of health care interventions and policies. This paper has three broad aims: (1) to describe the basic principles of meta-analysis, using a meta-analysis of interventions intended to reduce hospital re-admission rates for illustration; (2) to consider threats to the internal validity of meta-analysis, and the measures which can be taken to minimize their impact; and (3) to present an overview of more specialist and developing methods for synthesizing data, with the intention of outlining the directions meta-analysis may take in the future. The methods used to synthesize studies, which take 'weighted averages' of effect sizes have been refined to a high degree, while the methods for dealing with threats to the validity of meta-analyses such as publication bias, and variations in quality of the primary studies, are at a less advanced stage. However, many consider this standard 'weighted average' approach to meta-analysis not to be 'state of the art' in at least some situations, where the use of more sophisticated methods, generally to explain variation in estimates from different studies and synthesize a broader base of evidence, would be advantageous. Currently, approaches which attempt to do this are mainly still in the experimental stage and, unfortunately, ideas which sound natural and appealing are often difficult to implement in practice. Clearly, it will be some time before they are used routinely, but significant steps have been made.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10151/frame.html


Record #72 of 113
ID: CMR-12452
AU: Heidenreich PA
AU: McClellan M
TI: Trends in treatment and outcomes for acute myocardial infarction: 1975-1995.
SO: American Journal of Medicine
YR: 2001
VL: 110
NO: 3
PG: 165-74
AD: Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California, USA.
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA3
AB: PURPOSE: To review the trends in treatment and survival for patients with acute myocardial infarction over the last 20 years. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Studies were identified through MEDLINE searches and review of study bibliographies. Additional data were obtained from the Health Care Financing Administration including data from Medicare claims files (part A). Thirty-day mortality rates were calculated using Medicare data and case fatality rates from the National Hospital Discharge Survey. Published meta-analyses were used to determine treatment effects. Published studies were included if they reported the use of therapies for acute myocardial infarction at a population level. Trends in the demographic characteristics of the patients as well as infarct characteristics, medication use, and revascularization were recorded. RESULTS: The use of acute treatments that are known to improve survival among patients with myocardial infarction has increased markedly during the last 20 years, leading to an estimated 9.6% reduction (from 27.0% to 17.4%) in 30-day mortality. After adjusting for potential interactions between therapies, the increase in use of aspirin, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and reperfusion can explain 71% of the decrease in the 30-day age- and sex-adjusted mortality rate from 1975 to 1995. The greatest effect of a given therapy was that of aspirin, which accounted for 34% of the decrease in 30-day mortality, followed by thrombolysis (17%), primary angioplasty (10%), beta-blockers (7%), and ACE inhibitors (3%). If other treatments (such as heparin or nonprimary angioplasty), whose effects on mortality are less certain, are included, up to 90% of the decrease in 30-day mortality can be explained by changes in treatment. CONCLUSIONS: The primary reason for the decrease in early mortality from myocardial infarction during the last 20 years appears to be increased use of effective treatments.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-12452/frame.html


Record #73 of 113
ID: CMR-3706
AU: Leng G Cosford P Diamond L
TI: How well do doctors access the Cochrane Library and other sources of information? [abstract]
SO: 9th Annual Cochrane Colloquium; 2001Oct 9-13; Lyon, France.
YR: 2001
AD: gillian.leng@ nice.nhs.uk
KY: CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - dissemination;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: As the amount of evidence relating to patient care increases, it is vital that clinicians have access to up-to-date sources of information. Publications synthesizing results of primary research into systematic reviews are therefore increasingly important, including publications such as the Cochrane Library. It is not known, however, to what extent doctors are aware of, or able to access, these different sources of evidence. The aim of this study was to audit use of and access to sources of information by doctors in Bedfordshire, and to identify potential barriers. METHODS: A questionnaire was mailed to all 827 doctors in general practices, acute hospitals and community trusts in Bedfordshire in September 2000. A second questionnaire was sent to non-responders after four weeks. The questionnaire was designed to determine use of literature search facilities and primary and secondary research publications, potential barriers to accessing evidence, and training in critical appraisal. Data were analysed using SPSS 10.0 for Windows, Microsoft Excel 97 and Epi-info V6. Analysis by subgroups for place of work and job type was performed. RESULTS: The overall response rate was 68%, with general practitioners (GPs) being more likely to reply than other doctors (72.7% compared with 64.8%, p=0.02). The most frequently read publication was the British Medical Journal (read weekly by 55.7% of GPs and 68.5% of other doctors). Only 4.8% of GPs and 13.6% of other doctors reported using the Cochrane Library at least monthly, and 69.0% of GPs and 56.8% of other doctors never used it. The Cochrane Library was most likely to be used by junior hospital doctors, 18.2% of whom reported using it at least monthly. Nine percent of all doctors claimed they had no access to the Cochrane Library, although 34.1% of these reported use of the Internet and therefore had potential access to the Library via this route. Bandolier was read by 59.4% of GPs, and by 21.0% of other doctors at least monthly. Computer access was good (98.2% of GPs and 88.6% of other doctors), but 35.5% of GPs and 31.5% of other doctors had no Internet access. Access to search facilities was reported by 51.9% of GPs and 90.3% of other doctors. Commonly cited barriers to accessing information were need for information technology (IT) training (25.7% of all doctors), lack of time (13.7%) and Internet access (12.5%). CONCLUSIONS: Paper-based journals were used more commonly than electronic sources such as the Cochrane Library. Key barriers were need for IT training, Internet access and protected time for reading. Further training and a change in culture are therefore required.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-3706/frame.html


Record #74 of 113
ID: CMR-3579
AU: Lewsey JD
AU: Leyland AH
AU: Murray GD
AU: Boddy FA
TI: Using routine data to complement and enhance the results of randomised controlled trials
SO: Health Technology Assessment
YR: 2000
VL: 4
NO: 22
PG: 1-55
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - study design; CMR: Evaluation methodology - non-randomised studies;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are widely accepted as the best way to assess the outcomes and safety of medical interventions, but are sometimes not ethical, not feasible, or limited in the generalisability of their results. In such circumstances, routinely available data could help in several ways. Routine data could be used, for example, to conduct 'pseudo-trials', to estimate likely outcomes and required sample size to help design and conduct trials, or to examine whether the expected outcomes observed in an RCT will be realised in the general population. OBJECTIVES: The project was undertaken to explore how routinely assembled hospital data might complement or supplement RCTs to evaluate medical interventions: in contexts where RCTs are not feasible for defining the context and design of an RCT for assessing whether the benefits indicated by RCTs are achieved in wider clinical practice. METHODS: The project was based on the system of linked Scottish morbidity records, which cover 100% of acute hospital care episodes and statutory death records from 1981 to 1995. Three case studies were undertaken as a way of investigating the utility of these records in different applications. First, an attempt was made to analyse the link between the timing of surgery for subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and subsequent outcomes (a question not easily susceptible to RCT design). A subsample was derived by excluding patients for which a diagnosis of SAH may not have been established or that may not have been admitted to a neurosurgical unit, and the data were assessed to attempt to inform the design of a trial of early versus late surgery. Transurethral prostatectomy (TURP), the second case study, has become the surgery of choice for benign prostatic hyperplasia without systematic assessment of its effectiveness and safety, and an RCT would now be considered unethical. However, there is a need to investigate long-term effects and the influence of co-morbidities on outcomes. A retrospective comparison of mortality and re-operation following either open prostatectomy (OPEN) or TURP was, therefore, undertaken. Patients for whom it was not possible to establish the initial procedure were excluded. The third case study compared coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA) for coronary revascularisation. RCTs have been conducted in limited patient subgroups with short follow-up periods. A meta-analysis of RCTs could be augmented by routine data, which are available for large populations. This would allow assessment of subgroup effects, and outcomes over a long period. A subgroup of patients was therefore constructed for whom relevant routine data were available and who reflected the entry criteria for major RCTs, thus enabling a comparison between the results expected from this subgroup and those of the general population. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The uses of routine data in these contexts had strengths and weaknesses. The SAH study suggested a means of assessing outcomes and survival rates following haemorrhage, which could have value in informing the design of more precise trials and in evaluating changes in outcome following the introduction of new treatments such as embolisation. However, the potential of the data was not realised because their scope and content were insufficient. For example, lack of data on the time of onset of symptoms and patients' conditions at hospital admission made it difficult to establish the link between timing of surgery and the outcome, and there was insufficient information on patients' conditions at discharge to enable a comparison of outcomes. The prostatectomy study was able to address questions not answered by RCT literature because the large number of cases it included allowed exploration of subgroup effects. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-3579/frame.html


Record #75 of 113
ID: CMR-8264
AU: Gross CP
AU: Steiner CA
AU: Bass EB
AU: Powe NR
TI: Relation between prepublication release of clinical trial results and the practice of carotid endarterectomy.
SO: JAMA
YR: 2000
VL: 284
NO: 22
PG: 2886-2893
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA6.1
AB: CONTEXT: Little is known about how clinical practice is affected by disseminating results of clinical trials prior to publication in peer-reviewed journals. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether prepublication release of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) trial results via National Institutes of Health Clinical Alerts was associated with prompt changes in patient care that were consistent with the new medical evidence. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Longitudinal data series analysis using acute care hospital discharge data from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project for patients who had CEA performed in acute care hospitals in 7 states (New York, California, Pennsylvania, Florida, Colorado, Illinois, and Wisconsin). The trials were the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET clinical alert released February 1991) and the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS clinical alert released September 1994). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Carotid endarterectomy rate during each month from 1989 (2 years before the NASCET clinical alert) to 1996 (2 years after the ACAS clinical alert), adjusted for age and sex. Because both trials were limited to patients 80 years or younger in hospitals with low mortality, we also stratified CEA rates by patient age and hospital mortality rate. RESULTS: From 1989 through 1996, 272849 CEAs were performed in the acute care hospitals in these 7 states, with the annual number increasing from 22300 to 51 495. Afterthe NASCET clinical alert, the adjusted CEA rate increased 3.4% per month (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.6%-5.3%) during the following 6 months and then increased 0.5% per month (95% CI, 0.2%-0.8%; P<.04) after journal publication of the NASCET study. After the ACAS clinical alert, the CEA rate increased 7.3 % per month (95% CI, 6.0%-8.5%) during the following 7 months and then decreased by 0.44% per month (95% CI, -0.86% to -0.0002%; P<.04) after journal publication of the ACAS study. After the ACAS clinical alert, the CEA rate increased more in patients aged 80 years or older than in younger patients; whereas, after journal publication of ACAS, the CEA rate decreased more rapidly in the older population. The overall proportion of CEAs performed in low-mortality hospitals did not change substantially after release of the clinical alerts or after journal publication. CONCLUSION: In this study, prepublication dissemination of CEA trial results with clinical alerts was associated with prompt and substantial changes in medical practice, but the observed changes suggest that the results were extrapolated to patients and settings not directly supported by the trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8264/frame.html


Record #76 of 113
ID: CMR-8195
AU: Bennett CL
AU: Stinson TJ
AU: Vogel V
AU: Robertson L
AU: Leedy D
AU: O'Brien P
AU: Hobbs J
AU: Sutton T
AU: Ruckdeschel JC
AU: Chirikos TN
AU: Weiner RS
AU: Ramsey MM
AU: Wicha MS
TI: Evaluating the financial impact of clinical trials in oncology: results from a pilot study from the Association of American Cancer Institutes/Northwestern University clinical trials costs and charges project.
SO: Journal of Clinical Oncology
YR: 2000
VL: 18
NO: 15
PG: 2805-2810
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA3
AB: PURPOSE: Medical care for clinical trials is often not reimbursed by insurers, primarily because of concern that medical care as part of clinical trials is expensive and not part of standard medical practice. In June 2000, President Clinton ordered Medicare to reimburse for medical care expenses incurred as part of cancer clinical trials, although many private insurers are concerned about the expense of this effort. To inform this policy debate, the costs and charges of care for patients on clinical trials are being evaluated. In this Association of American Cancer Institutes (AACI) Clinical Trials Costs and Charges pilot study, we describe the results and operational considerations of one of the first completed multisite economic analyses of clinical trials. METHODS: Our pilot effort included assessment of total direct medical charges for 6 months of care for 35 case patients who received care on phase II clinical trials and for 35 matched controls (based on age, sex, disease, stage, and treatment period) at five AACI member cancer centers. Charge data were obtained for hospital and ancillary services from automated claims files at individual study institutions. The analyses were based on the perspective of a third-party payer. RESULTS: The mean age of the phase II clinical trial patients was 58.3 years versus 57.3 years for control patients. The study population included persons with cancer of the breast (n = 24), lung (n = 18), colon (n = 16), prostate (n = 4), and lymphoma (n = 8). The ratio of male-to-female patients was 3:4, with greater than 75% of patients having stage III to IV disease. Total mean charges for treatment from the time of study enrollment through 6 months were similar: $57,542 for clinical trial patients and $63,721 for control patients (1998 US$; P =.4) CONCLUSION: Multisite economic analyses of oncology clinical trials are in progress. Strategies that are not likely to overburden data managers and clinicians are possible to devise. However, these studies require careful planning and coordination among cancer center directors, finance department personnel, economists, and health services researchers.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-8195/frame.html


Record #77 of 113
ID: CMR-6922
AU: Wazana A
TI: Physicians and the pharmaceutical industry: is a gift ever just a gift?
SO: JAMA
YR: 2000
VL: 283
NO: 3
PG: 373-380
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in reviews - funding of studies;CMRA3
AB: CONTEXT: Controversy exists over the fact that physicians have regular contact with the pharmaceutical industry and its sales representatives, who spend a large sum of money each year promoting to them by way of gifts, free meals, travel subsidies, sponsored teachings, and symposia. OBJECTIVE: To identify the extent of and attitudes toward the relationship between physicians and the pharmaceutical industry and its representatives and its impact on the knowledge, attitudes, and behavior of physicians. DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search was conducted for English-language articles published from 1994 to present, with review of reference lists from retrieved articles; in addition, an Internet database was searched and 5 key informants were interviewed. STUDY SELECTION: A total of 538 studies that provided data on any of the study questions were targeted for retrieval, 29 of which were included in the analysis. DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted by 1 author. Articles using an analytic design were considered to be of higher methodological quality. DATA SYNTHESIS: Physician interactions with pharmaceutical representatives were generally endorsed, began in medical school, and continued at a rate of about 4 times per month. Meetings with pharmaceutical representatives were associated with requests by physicians for adding the drugs to the hospital formulary and changes in prescribing practice. Drug company-sponsored continuing medical education (CME) preferentially highlighted the sponsor's drug(s) compared with other CME programs. Attending sponsored CME events and accepting funding for travel or lodging for educational symposia were associated with increased prescription rates of the sponsor's medication. Attending presentations given by pharmaceutical representative speakers was also associated with nonrational prescribing. CONCLUSION: The present extent of physician-industry interactions appears to affect prescribing and professional behavior and should be further addressed at the level of policy and education. General Note Full author name: Wazana, Ashley KIE BoB Subject Heading: health care/economics KIE BoB Subject Heading: patient care/drugs.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-6922/frame.html


Record #78 of 113
ID: CMR-10717
AU: Reintjes R
AU: Boer A
AU: Pelt W
AU: Mintjes-de Groot J
TI: Simpson's paradox: an example from hospital epidemiology.
SO: Epidemiology
YR: 2000
VL: 11
NO: 1
PG: 81-83
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - statistical analysis;CMR: Other methodology - training and support;CMRA7.1;CMRA4
AB: Simpson's paradox was first recognized at the beginning of the 20th century, but few examples with real data have been presented. In this paper we present an example of this phenomenon from a multicenter study on nosocomial infections, and we try to explain intuitively this type of extreme confounding.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-10717/frame.html


Record #79 of 113
ID: CMR-6669
AU: Madge S
AU: Mocroft A
AU: Wilson D
AU: Youle M
AU: Lipman MC
AU: Phillips A
AU: Tyrer M
AU: Cozzi-Lepri A
AU: Swaden L
AU: Johnson MA
TI: Participation in clinical studies among patients infected with HIV-1 in a single treatment centre over 12 years
SO: HIV Medicine
YR: 2000
VL: 1
NO: 4
PG: 212-218
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - accrual and sample size;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To examine a complete population of clinic attenders in order to compare the demographics of patients who participated in a clinical study with those who had not. These were subdivided into trials of antivirals, trials for drugs used in opportunistic infections or symptomatic HIV and epidemiological studies. The setting was an established London teaching hospital. All patients diagnosed HIV-positive and attending between July 1983 and 1 January 1999 with one measured CD4 count and at least one follow-up visit were included. METHODS: The demographics of those participating in a clinical study were compared to those not enrolling using chi2 tests and Wilcoxon tests. Cox models were used to determine factors related to participation in clinical studies. RESULTS: Data from 2703 patients representing 5342.7 person-years' follow-up were assessed. Median time of follow-up was 23.6 months. Six hundred and eighty-seven (33%) patients had ever participated in a clinical study. After adjustment for demographic factors in multivariate analysis using Cox models, homosexuals were more likely to participate compared with heterosexuals or injecting drug users (IDU) (P = 0.0035 and P = 0.0001, respectively). Women were more likely to enter a study (P = 0.02) and there was no difference between Caucasians and black Africans (P = 0.35). Between the three types of studies few differences were seen. CONCLUSION: High rates of participation in clinical trials and epidemiological studies were seen in this cohort. In keeping with other studies, homosexual men were well represented but IDU were under-represented. However, women and black African patients showed good uptake of all clinical studies. Hence in this population there is some success in targeting representative groups to participate in clinical studies, but more effort needs to be made with IDU.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-6669/frame.html


Record #80 of 113
ID: CMR-2728
AU: Beck EJ
AU: Beecham J
AU: Mandalia S
AU: Griffith R
AU: Walters MD
AU: Boulton M
AU: Miller DL
TI: What is the cost of getting the price wrong?
SO: Journal of Public Health Medicine
YR: 1999
VL: 21
NO: 3
PG: 311-317
AD: Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Imperial College School of Medicine, London.
KY: CMR: Economic analysis;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to compare differences in cost estimates for paediatric HIV hospital service provision based on hospital prices with cost estimates obtained through a research-based service-specific costing exercise. METHODS: Activity data on the use of hospital services of children by stage of HIV infection were collected from case-notes for 118 HIV antibody positive children, managed at St Mary's Hospital NHS Trust, London, 1 January 1986-31 December 1994. Hospital unit prices were obtained from the Hospital Trust Finance Department; unit cost estimates were obtained from relevant hospital departments through a research-based service-specific costing exercise. Financial data related to the 1993-1994 financial year, and were indexed to 1995-1996 prices. The main outcome measures were cost estimates per patient-year by stage of HIV infection. Three cost scenarios were calculated: first by linking activity data with hospital prices (Trust Prices); second by linking activity data with routinely available hospital prices plus units costs from the costing exercise where no relevant hospital prices existed (Supplemented Trust Prices); third, by linking activity data exclusively with unit costs from the hospital-specific costing exercise (Unit Costs). RESULTS: There were substantial differences between unit cost estimates per patient-year based on Trust Prices and Supplemented Trust Prices compared with those based on Unit Costs. Differences increased with more intense use of services. The deficit based on Trust Prices compared with Unit Costs ranged from Pound Sterling 432 per patient-year for HIV negative children, Pound Sterling 574 for asymptomatic HIV-infected children, Pound Sterling 1288 for indeterminate children, Pound Sterling 1814 for children with symptomatic non-AIDS to Pound Sterling 7418 per patient-year for children with AIDS. CONCLUSIONS: In this hospital, reliance on generic hospital prices to derive cost estimates for paediatric HIV services produced considerable underestimates of the cost of service provision compared with data derived through the costing exercise. If this occurs across all or most areas of service provision, this can lead to substantial financial deficits, which in turn may mean that the needs of specific client populations may not be met.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2728/frame.html


Record #81 of 113
ID: CMR-4610
AU: Phillips AN
AU: Grabar S
AU: Tassie JM
AU: Costagliola D
AU: Lundgren JD
AU: Egger M
TI: Use of observational databases to evaluate the effectiveness of antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection: comparison of cohort studies with randomized trials. EuroSIDA, the French Hospital Database on HIV and the Swiss HIV Cohort Study Groups
SO: AIDS
YR: 1999
VL: 13
NO: 15
PG: 2075-2082
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - history and epidemiology of evaluations;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVES: It is important to assess the extent of bias when comparing the clinical efficacy of antiretroviral regimens in observational databases because, with the current lack of planned large trials, such analyses may represent the only means of assessing the risk of serious clinical events associated with new regimens. We aimed to compare the results from observational databases with those from randomized trials. METHODS: Three treatment comparisons from randomized trials [Delta, AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) 175, Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS (CPCRA) 007 and ACTC 320] were mimicked in cohorts: (i) zidovudine monotherapy versus combination regimens of two nucleoside analogues; (ii) zidovudine combined with either didanosine or zalcitabine; and (iii) a dual combination versus a triple regimen including a protease inhibitor. Data for over 10 000 patients from the French Hospital Database on HIV, the EuroSIDA study and the Swiss HIV cohort study were analysed for each of the comparisons. Progression to AIDS disease or death was analysed in Cox models, adjusting for baseline differences, and results compared with randomized trials. RESULTS: For comparison (i) the adjusted relative risk estimates from cohorts were between 0.61 and 0.84, favouring combinations over monotherapy, compared with 0.57 to 0.63 for trials. For comparison (ii) relative risk estimates from cohorts ranged from 0.81 to 1.01 compared with 0.77 to 0.92 for trials. For comparison (iii), two of the cohorts showed similar results to the ACTG 320 trial but one indicated a higher risk of progression on triple therapy [relative risk 1.20, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01-1.441, in direct contrast to the trial result (relative risk 0.50, 95% CI 0.33-0.76). CONCLUSION: Serious biases can be present when comparing outcomes from the use of antiretroviral regimens in observational studies. However, such bias is not inevitable and careful interpretation of the results from several observational studies considered together is likely to be informative, guiding the design of new trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4610/frame.html


Record #82 of 113
ID: CMR-3045
AU: Hyde C
TI: Possible bias presenting the results of systemic reviews: an example and a suggested solution [abstract]
SO: 7th Annual Cochrane Colloquium; 1999 Oct 5-9; Rome, Italy
YR: 1999
AD: Chris Hyde, ARIF, Dept of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
KY: CMRA5.1; CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - missing data; CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - graphical displays
AB: Introduction: The forest plot or "blobbogram" is an extremely powerful tool for presenting the results of the included studies in a systematic review, and is rightly a key component of Cochrane Reviews. However, its ability to convey large amounts of information succinctly, in a way which allows many readers to rapidly draw their own conclusions, also carries dangers. When mistakes or inaccuracies are introduced they are quickly transmitted to readers, who may not have the time or skills to spot these themselves. The author illustrates one situation in which summary odds ratio diagrams can seriously misrepresent the results of included studies in a systematic review. Method: Case study of a systematic review performed by the author in association with others (1 Robert & A Sinclair) on trials of the effects of supporting discharge from hospital to home in older persons. The nature of the problem arose as part of a detailed reconsideration of the review in response to anonymous referees' comments following submission to a major journal. Results: One of the key outcomes in the review was the effect on "institutionalisation" ie whether a trial participant was admitted to long stay care. Seven of the nine included studies in the review provided information on this outcome. Three studies presented results as point event rates, three as period event rates and four as mean duration of presence in long- stay care. Although sought, individual patient data was not available to allow results to be expressed in a common format. Thus relying on a forest plot to convey the results of included studies in the Cochrane format would have meant that only approximately half the available information about the effect of this intervention on institutionalisation could be conveyed on one diagram, with no means to indicate on this diagram that further valid information on the outcome was available. Conclusions: When viewing a summary odds ratio diagram it is easy to assume that any included studies not represented do not furnish information on the outcome in question. In the case of our review this was not the case and we suspect that this is not the only systematic review where the forest plot has misrepresented the results of all the included studies. The author suggests that each summary odds ratio diagram should have a foot-note indicating the reasons why any included studies do not appear on the figure.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-3045/frame.html


Record #83 of 113
ID: CMR-4177
AU: Alfirevic Z
AU: Boer K
AU: Borcklehurst P
AU: Buimer M
AU: Elbourne D
AU: Kok J
AU: Tansey S
TI: Two trials of antenatal thyrotrophin-releasing hormone for fetal maturation: stopping before the due date. Antenatal TRH Trial and the Thyroneth Trial Groups
SO: British Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology
YR: 1999
VL: 106
NO: 9
PG: 898-906
KY: CMR: Evaluation methodology - bias in trials - early stopping;CMRA6.1
AB: OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the addition of antenatal thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) to corticosteroids, given to women at risk of preterm delivery, would decrease the risk of death and severe morbidity associated with prematurity. DESIGN: Two concurrent multicentre, double blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trials were designed with a common core dataset to be analysed as a single large pragmatic trial. SETTING: Hospital maternity units. POPULATIONS: Pregnant women at risk of preterm delivery who had been prescribed a course of corticosteroids to enhance fetal maturation. INTERVENTIONS: Antenatal administration of TRH 400 microg every eight hours for four doses versus matching placebo. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary: death of the baby or chronic lung disease (defined as oxygen dependency at 28 days after birth). Secondary: other measures of respiratory morbidity, in particular respiratory distress syndrome. Other measures of short term neonatal morbidity including intraventricular haemorrhage and necrotising enterocolitis. Measures of maternal side effects. RESULTS: The antenatal TRH trial was halted early on the basis of external evidence. Overall a total of 225 women were recruited who delivered 275 babies. The primary outcome of death or chronic lung disease occurred in 33 babies in the TRH group and 43 babies in the placebo group (RR 0.8, 95% CI 0.5-1.2). There were no other differences between the two groups. Stratified analysis did not reveal any differences between the two groups depending on how long before the time of delivery the mother had received the TRH or placebo. CONCLUSIONS: These trials are too small to provide convincing evidence of the effect of antenatal TRH on neonatal outcome. When added to the existing systematic review and meta-analysis, however, these data should provide evidence on which subsequent practice can be based. The process by which the trials were monitored and stopped is of relevance to future trials.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4177/frame.html


Record #84 of 113
ID: CMR-2743
AU: Zulueta MA
AU: Bordons M
TI: [Spanish scientific production in the cardiovascular area through Science Citation Index (1990-1996)]
SO: Revista Espanola de Cardiologia
YR: 1999
VL: 52
NO: 10
PG: 751-764
AD: Facultad de Documentacion, Universidad de Alcala, Madrid. angeles.zulueta@uah.es
KY: CMR: Systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: A bibliometric analysis of the Spanish scientific production in the Cardiovascular research area constitutes a useful approach to the study of the scientific activity conducted in the field. The most relevant aspects of the research and their evolution over time are analysed. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Publications covered by the Science Citation Index database under the heading "cardiovascular system" during the years 1990-1996 and signed by at least one Spanish address were studied. The distribution of the scientific production by geographic areas and institutional sectors was analysed and the most productive centers were identified. RESULTS: During these years, the scientific production in Cardiovascular research showed a growing rate of 83%, slightly lower than that of Biomedicine in Spain. A total of 1,434 documents were analysed (3% of the biomedical production), with 24% of meeting-abstracts. Although the production was concentrated in Madrid (33%) and Cataluna (30%), Cantabria and Navarra emerged when the values were normalised according to either R&D expenditures or population data. The most productive institutional sectors were Hospitals (86%) and Universities (22%). The most productive centres were identified, as well as their growth rate, their activity index and the average impact factor of the journals used. More than 50% of the documents were performed in collaboration among different centres. International collaboration showed an upward trend (from 16% to 21%). CONCLUSIONS: Spanish Cardiovascular research showed an increasing international visibility over the studied period, as shown by the growing number of publications in the Science Citation Index database, the up-rising trend towards high-impact-factor journals, and the ever-growing collaboration of Spanish authors with foreign partners.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2743/frame.html


Record #85 of 113
ID: CMR-1202
AU: Pham B
AU: Nichol G
TI: Meta-analysis of case-series: graphical methods for selecting functional forms of exposed factors and model [abstract]
SO: Sixth International Cochrane Colloquium; 1998 Oct 22-26; Baltimore, MD, USA
YR: 1998
PG: 49
AD: The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada.
KY: B4;C12;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - observational data;CMRA5.1
AB: Background: Forty three case-series describing fifty three emergency medical services systems were included in our meta-analysis evaluating the effectiveness of different EMS systems for survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrests. These systems were classified according to level of care: basic life support (BLS), BLS with defibrillation (BLS-D), advanced life support (ALS), BLS+ALS and BLS-D+ALS. The system response time (RT) and the likelihood of bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) were deemed to be important exposed factors. Reasonable models of survival were necessary for inferences on both EMS levels and exposure effects. Apparently, logistic regression models that assumed a linear relationship between RT, CPR and survival produced clinically untenable results. We explored the functional form for the contributions of RT, CPR toward survival to select a suitable model. Methods: Functional forms of RT and CPR were examined through smoothing functions in generalized additive models (Hastie 1990). We categorized RT into levels suggested by the shape of its empirical contribution. A family of logistic regression models allowing for different shapes and interactions of RT, CPR and EMS were considered. We plotted the AIC statistic, partitioned it into under- and over-fitting components, against the number of model parameters. This plot, the test of nested models and the stability of model coefficients were considered for selecting the best model. For model diagnostics, we used residual plots and Cook's distance. Odds-ratios and fitted values for EMS levels and RT, CPR effects were derived from the fitted model. Results: A total of 15 models were considered by plotting their AIC statistic versus the number of model parameters. One model attained a reasonable balance between under and overfitting and produced clinically interpretable coefficients. Influential studies detected by the Cook's distance plot coincided exactly with a single large sample size caseseries. Survival was constant if the response time was less than 6 minutes, decreased as the interval increased from 6 to 11 minutes, and leveled off after 11 minutes (p<0.01). Compared to BLS-D, odds ratio (95% confidence interval) of survival were: ALS 1.71 (1.09, 2.70; p=0.0 1), BLS+ALS 1.47 (0.89, 2.42; p==0.07) and BLS-D+ALS 2.31 (1.47, 3.62; p<01.0 1). Odds of survival were 1.06 (1.03, 1. 10; p<0.0 1) per 5% increase in bystander CPR. Discussion: The selection of an appropriate model is essential for proper inference in a meta-analysis of case-series. Graphical methods may be used to balance over versus under fitting, so as to select an appropriate model.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1202/frame.html


Record #86 of 113
ID: CMR-2626
AU: Favaloro EJ
TI: Medical research in New South Wales 1993-1996 assessed by Medline publication capture
SO: Medical Journal of Australia
YR: 1998
VL: 169
NO: 11-12
PG: 617-622
AD: Institute of Clinical Pathology and Medical Research (ICPMR), Westmead Hospital, Western Sydney Area Health Service, NSW. emmanuel@icpmr.wsahs.nsw.gov.au
KY: CMR: Systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES: To assess medical research publication output in New South Wales (NSW). DESIGN: Analysis of publication information from the Medline indexing database, 1993-1996 inclusive. SETTING: Teaching hospitals and affiliated universities and medical research institutes within NSW, the major sites for NSW medical science publications. MAJOR OUTCOME MEASURES: Cumulative number and location of Medline-identified publications; journal citation indices (impact factor and immediacy index). RESULTS: 8860 published articles were captured for the analysis period. Universities and hospitals accounted for most of the publications (n = 7755). A mean of 73.1% (range, 36%-100%) of all articles were published in overseas journals, and the rest in Australian journals. This average trend applied to most universities and teaching hospitals, whereas research institutes published almost exclusively in overseas journals. Average publication impact factor values for most universities and teaching hospitals were around the average value for all NSW publications (2.203). The range for teaching hospital publications was 1.000-2.823, but for the overseas-publishing medical research institutes it tended to be higher (2.480-5.423). Immediacy index data yielded similar findings. CONCLUSIONS: The universities and teaching hospitals account for most of the medical publications arising from NSW, and also those appearing in Australian journals. Thus, these sites provide the bulk of Australian medical practice end-user information. In contrast, the medical institutes concentrate on publishing in overseas journals with higher and quicker citation rates (higher impact factor and immediacy index).
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2626/frame.html


Record #87 of 113
ID: CMR-2616
AU: Schulman K
AU: Burke J
AU: Drummond M
AU: Davies L
AU: Carlsson P
AU: Gruger J
AU: Harris A
AU: Lucioni C
AU: Gisbert R
AU: Llana T
AU: Tom E
AU: Bloom B
AU: Willke R
AU: Glick H
TI: Resource costing for multinational neurologic clinical trials: methods and results
SO: Health Economics
YR: 1998
VL: 7
NO: 7
PG: 629-638
AD: Clinical Economics Research Unit, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.
KY: CMR: Economic analysis;CMRA6.1
AB: We present the results of a multinational resource costing study for a prospective economic evaluation of a new medical technology for treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage within a clinical trial. The study describes a framework for the collection and analysis of international resource cost data that can contribute to a consistent and accurate intercountry estimation of cost. Of the 15 countries that participated in the clinical trial, we collected cost information in the following seven: Australia, France, Germany, the UK, Italy, Spain, and Sweden. The collection of cost data in these countries was structured through the use of worksheets to provide accurate and efficient cost reporting. We converted total average costs to average variable costs and then aggregated the data to develop study unit costs. When unit costs were unavailable, we developed an index table, based on a market-basket approach, to estimate unit costs. To estimate the cost of a given procedure, the market-basket estimation process required that cost information be available for at least one country. When cost information was unavailable in all countries for a given procedure, we estimated costs using a method based on physician-work and practice-expense resource-based relative value units. Finally, we converted study unit costs to a common currency using purchasing power parity measures. Through this costing exercise we developed a set of unit costs for patient services and per diem hospital services. We conclude by discussing the implications of our costing exercise and suggest guidelines to facilitate more effective multinational costing exercises.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2616/frame.html


Record #88 of 113
ID: CMR-771
AU: Thornley B
AU: Adams C
TI: Content and quality of 2000 controlled trials in schizophrenia over 50 years
SO: BMJ
YR: 1998
VL: 317
NO: 7167
PG: 1181-1184
AD: Cochrane Schizophrenia Group, Summertown Pavilion, Oxford OX2 7LG, UK
KY: B1;C15;C8;CMR: Evaluation methodology - history and epidemiology of evaluations;CMRA3
AB: STRUCTURED ABSTRACT Prepared by the Empirical Methodological Studies Method Group in 1999 Background: The Schizophrenia Collaborative Review Group maintains a specialised register of randomised trials relevant to schizophrenia. Objective: To survey the content and quality of intervention studies relevant to the treatment of schizophrenia. Design: Analysis of data on the first 2000 trials in the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's specialised register. Data collection and analysis: The main outcome measures were type and date of publication, country of origin, language, size of study, treatment setting, participant group, interventions, outcomes and quality of study. These were obtained from an analysis of the randomised trials in the Group's register. Main results: The 2000 trials were reported in 2275 publications. 1940 (85%) of these were full publications in journals; 253 (11%) were presented at conferences; and 82 (4%) were published as letters, in books or as product monographs. The number of trials rose steadily with time, from about 20 per year in the 1950s and 1960s to nearly 75 per year in the 1990s. 54% of the trials were hospital based drug trials done in the United States. Generally, studies were short (54% were of treatment for less than 6 weeks), small (the mean number of patients was 65), and poorly reported (64% had a quality score of 2 or less, out of 5). Over 600 different interventions and 640 different rating scales were used in these trials. Conclusions: Despite 50 years of randomised trials in schizophrenia, there is still much scope for well planned, conducted and reported trials. COMMENTARY Prepared by Davina Ghersi (1999) (Also Vickers AJ 1998) Introspection can be a valuable exercise. Used wisely, it can give us insight into our current professional practice and be used to facilitate change. In this regard, specialised registers built by Collaborative Review Groups provide both Cochrane and non-Cochrane entities with a unique opportunity to look critically at randomised studies undertaken in specific topic areas, noting patterns over time, and detecting areas of potential concern. By examining the past we can plan more effectively for the future, hopefully learning from our mistakes and the authors provide an interesting example of how to undertake such descriptive, historical research within healthcare. Their work highlights an important point: unfortunately it is too late once the results of a trial are published to change its design. Ultimately, the only way to improve the quality of randomised trials, is to improve the design before the trial has started. This might be achieved by educating those who undertake trials in the problems caused by poor trial design: inadequate sample sizes, lack of comparability of outcome measures across trials, insufficient follow-up, etc. It may also be achieved by encouraging peer-review of trial protocols. Prospective registers of trials could be used to facilitate such a peer-review process. Quality may even by improved by the registration process itself. For example, prompting for the components of the sample size calculation could force trialists to think more carefully about how they decided on the number of subjects to be recruited. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Thornley B, Adams C. 50 Years of randomised controlled trials relevant to the care of schizophrenia: 2000 studies, 18 outcomes, 670 rating scales [abstract] Sixth International Cochrane Colloquium; 1998 Oct 22-26; Baltimore, MD, USA:46.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-771/frame.html


Record #89 of 113
ID: CMR-1070
AU: Heyland DK
AU: Guyatt G
AU: Cook DJ
AU: Meade M
AU: Juniper E
AU: Cronin L
AU: Gafni A
TI: Frequency and methodologic rigor of quality-of-life assessments in the critical care literature
SO: Critical Care Medicine
YR: 1998
VL: 26
NO: 3
PG: 591-598
AD: Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
KY: B1;C14;C8;CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - scales and checklists - general;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - quality of life;CMRA4;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES: To present a framework for describing/measuring quality of life (QOL) and health-related quality of life (HRQL), and to assess the frequency and methodologic rigor of QOL studies in the adult critical care literature. DATA SOURCES: Computerized bibliographic search of published research, manual search of key intensive care unit (ICU) journals, and citation review of relevant articles. STUDY SELECTION: We manually searched Critical Care Medicine, American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, and Intensive Care Medicine for the period January 1992 to July 1995 to assess the frequency of published QOL studies. Combined with a computerized bibliographic search, we found 64 studies that met our criteria that reported on patient-related outcomes (other than mortality) after hospital discharge. DATA EXTRACTION: We abstracted data on the nature of each study, the instruments used to measure QOL, and the methodologic rigor of the QOL assessments. We evaluated each study using criteria we developed to assess the validity of HRQL measurements. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In our manual search, we found 1,073 articles relevant to the practice of adult critical care. Of these, 19 (1.7%)/1073 included QOL measurements. Combined with our comprehensive search strategy, we found 64 papers that evaluated QOL in ICU patients. These papers dealt primarily with issues of: prognosis (32 [50%]), resource allocation (23 [36%]), and clinical prediction (9 [14%]). We found no randomized trials that included post-ICU QOL as an outcome. With respect to the validity of the HRQL assessments, 63/64 (98%) studies evaluated aspects of patients' lives that we considered important. Thirty-three (52%) studies were limited in scope to specific aspects of HRQL, and 31 (48%) studies covered broad areas of HRQL. In these 64 studies, there were 108 different instruments used. The reliability and validity of the instruments used were reported in 7 (6%) and 15 (14%) cases, respectively. For 81 (75%) instruments, the investigators either explained the results or used informative, qualitative descriptors whose interpretation was self-evident. Overall, three (5%) of the included studies met all four methodologic criteria to assess the validity of HRQL assessments. CONCLUSIONS: QOL assessments occur infrequently in the ICU literature and are of limited methodologic quality. More studies using valid and reliable instruments are necessary to document the long-term QOL of critically ill patients, especially those at risk of a "poor" outcome
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1070/frame.html


Record #90 of 113
ID: CMR-2559
AU: Cohlen BJ
AU: Velde ER
AU: Looman CW
AU: Eijckemans R
AU: Habbema JD
TI: Crossover or parallel design in infertility trials? The discussion continues [see comments]
SO: Fertility and Sterility
YR: 1998
VL: 70
NO: 1
PG: 40-45
AD: Department of Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands. B.COHLEN@DOG.AZU.NL
KY: CMR: Meta-analysis - crossover trials;CMRA2.1
AB: OBJECTIVE: To determine whether a crossover design results in a different estimate of treatment effect compared with a parallel design. DESIGN: With the aid of a computer program, data sets of subfertile patients were simulated under different assumptions. These patients were subjected to 2 treatments that were compared in either a parallel-design or a crossover-design trial. Results were analyzed using logistic regression. SETTING: University hospital. PATIENT(S): Simulated patients of a heterogeneous subfertile population. INTERVENTION(S): Two treatment modalities with a pregnancy rate of 10% and of 20% in the first cycle were offered for 6 cycles to simulated heterogeneous populations. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): After 1,000 simulations for each assumption, median pregnancy rates and odds ratios were compared between the crossover- and parallel-design trials. RESULT(S): No relevant difference in estimated treatment effect was found between the designs. The crossover design resulted in more pregnancies overall than the parallel design. CONCLUSION(S): In infertility research, parallel and crossover designs will lead to about the same results. Although the crossover design showed a slight tendency to overestimate the treatment effect of the most effective treatment, this overestimation is clinically not relevant and is small in relation to the random error. Because of its practical advantages and because more pregnancies are achieved, a crossover design should be the first choice in infertility research.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2559/frame.html


Record #91 of 113
ID: CMR-834
AU: McAuley LM
AU: Moher D
AU: Tugwell P
TI: The role of grey literature in meta-analysis [abstract]
SO: Third International Congress on Biomedical Peer Review and Global Communications; 1997 Sept 18-20; Prague, Czech Republic
YR: 1997
AD: Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Ottawa Civic Hospital, C4, 1053 Carling Ave, Ottawa, Ontario K1Y 4E9, Canada.
KY: B4;C4;CMR: Review methodology - data collection - unpublished data;CMR: Review methodology - presentation of reviews - quality assessment;CMRA4;CMRA3
AB: AB:Objective: To estimate the frequency of citations of "data on file" in drug advertisements, to survey how companies respond to requests for them, and to ascertain the nature of the data. Design: All drug ads in 9 consecutive issues of Hospital Doctor and 5 issues of Prescriber (aimed at UK General Practitioners) published in the last quarter of 1996 were surveyed. In the first week of 1997 all companies citing "data on file" or other unpublished material in any of these ads were asked by fax for copies. Eleven further ads from recent issues of other journals were investigated likewise. Results: The 14 issues contained 95 different full drug ads, each being repeated 4 times on average. About half cited one reference or more. Twenty-five (26%) referred to unpublished material, mostly "data on file." Thirty-eight different ads from 28 companies were investigated; 25 of them cited on data on file as a reference, 10 ads cited 2 data on file references, 3 ads had 3 data on file references. Eighteen of the ads referred to unidentified documents, the others gave a code number or indicated the nature of the document. One ad cited an unpublished paper by author and title as "submitted for publication." Initial responses to 19 of the 38 requests were received within 10 days. Much of the material was incomplete, consisting of abstracts or summaries not permitting critical evaluation; further correspondence was often needed. Three companies' material was marked "confidential." Conclusions: "Data on file" are used to justify crucial promotional claims, but the documentation is often of low quality. Many claims thus seem inadequately supported. Standards and remedies are needed. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: McAuley L, Pham B, Tugwell P, Moher D. Does the inclusion of grey literature influence estimates of intervention effectiveness reported in meta-analyses? Lancet 2000;356(9237):1228-31. McAuley L, Moher D, Pharm B, Tugwell P. Evaluation of the impact of grey literature on meta-analysis [abstract]. Seventh Annual Cochrane Colloquium; 1999 Oct 5-9; Rome, Italy:17.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-834/frame.html


Record #92 of 113
ID: CMR-2332
AU: Bennett CL
AU: Golub R
AU: Waters TM
AU: Tallman MS
AU: Rowe JM
TI: Economic analyses of phase III cooperative cancer group clinical trials: are they feasible?
SO: Cancer Investigation
YR: 1997
VL: 15
NO: 3
PG: 227-236
AD: Lakeside VA Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
KY: CMR: Economic analysis;CMRA6.1
AB: Both economic and clinical evaluations of new pharmaceutical agents are important to physicians who practice in the current health care environment. While cooperative cancer groups carry out large-scale phase III clinical evaluations of these agents, few cooperative group studies incorporate economic analyses because of concerns over overburdening of data management, investigators, and statistical center personnel. In this study, we describe the results and operational considerations of one of the first completed economic analyses of a phase III cooperative group trial of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG). We developed an economic model estimating economic benefits of yeast-derived granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as adjunct therapy for adult patients (56-70 years) with acute myelogenous leukemia. Clinical data were based on prospectively collected information from a recently reported double-blind phase III multi-institutional study carried out by ECOG. Retrospective economic data were obtained from financial information systems at our hospital, one of the study sites. The cost-minimization analyses were based on the perspective of a third-party payer. Indirect costs related to loss of earnings by patients and caregivers as well as quality-of-life adjustments were not incorporated into the model. Clinical trial results indicated that patients treated with GM-CSF had shorter times to recovery of absolute neutrophil count of 500 cells/mm3 and 1000 cells/mm3 and fewer serious infections than patients who received placebo following induction chemotherapy, while no significant differences were noted in red blood cell and platelet transfusion dependency, toxicities, and duration of hospitalization. The economic model estimated that the group treated with GM-CSF was estimated to have lower costs of care, associated with lower frequencies of serious infections and lower overall infection-related costs. Sensitivity analyses indicated that these results held true over a wide range of estimates of costs and infection rates. Prospective economic analyses of phase III cooperative cancer group clinical trials have not been completed to date. Strategies that are not likely to overburden data managers and statistical center personnel are possible to devise. However, these studies require careful planning and coordination between clinical trialists, economists, and health services researchers.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2332/frame.html


Record #93 of 113
ID: CMR-2459
AU: Cami J
AU: Zulueta MA
AU: Fernandez MT
AU: Bordons M
AU: Gomez I
TI: [Spanish scientific production in biomedicine and health sciences during the period 1990-1993 (Science Citation Index and Social Science Citation Index) and comparison to period 1986-1989]
SO: Medicina Clinica (Barcelona)
YR: 1997
VL: 109
NO: 13
PG: 481-496
AD: Institut Municipal d'Investigacio Medica (IMIM), Barcelona. jcami@imim.es
KY: CMR: Systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: In 1993 a first study on the scientific production of Spain in 1986-1989 on Biomedicine and Health Sciences, through the Science Citation Index (SCI) was published. The analysis attained the level of centres, with special emphasis in those related to the Health Care System. This paper analyses the period 1990-1993, offers a wider coverage including the Social Science Citation Index (SSCI) database, and compares both time periods. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Documents indexed by SCI and SSCI, CD-ROM version, with at least one Spanish address, published in biomedical and medical journals during the years 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, have been studied. Quantitative and qualitative bibliometric indicators for the analysis by subject matter, geographic distribution, institutional sector and centre of origin have been used. Global data were also analysed according to economic and human resources. RESULTS: A total of 21,434 documents were studied, of which 67.9% were journal articles. The highest contributors were Universities (48.8% of the documents) and Hospitals (45.3%). The autonomous communities of Madrid (31.9%) and Catalonia (26.9%) concentrate more than half the production-developed principally by hospitals-followed by Andalucia (11.7%) and C. Valenciana (7.8%). The most active disciplines were biochemistry/molecular biology (13%), neurosciences/neurology (8.4%), pharmacology/pharmacy (8.4%) and medicine, general/internal (7.9%). Comparing the results with period 1986-1989, some of the differences observed could be explained by the fact of MEDICINA CLINICA being included in SCI since 1992. An increase in the number of citable items (72.9%), number of journals used (from 1,086 to 1,346) and international cooperation rate (13.5% to 18.3%) was detected. The institutional sectors with the highest growth rate were Hospitals (92.9%) and Consejo Superior de investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC) (119.3%). Scientific production and visibility of publications (measured as impact factor of journals used) grew in most disciplines, being the quantitative increase greater in cancer/oncology, gastroenterology/hepatology, genetics/heredity and cardiovascular system. No substantial changes as to geographic distribution of documents or most active centres were observed. CONCLUSIONS: Spanish scientific activity grew steadily every year and its visibility improved, being the Health sector one of the main actors. When comparing both four-year period. Spain moved up from the seventh to the sixth position in the ranking of EU countries according to its scientific output in biomedicine and health sciences.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2459/frame.html


Record #94 of 113
ID: CMR-1232
AU: Abi Said D
AU: Annegers JF
AU: Combs Cantrell D
AU: Suki R
AU: Frankowski RF
AU: Willmore LJ
TI: A case-control evaluation of treatment efficacy: the example of magnesium sulfate prophylaxis against eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 1997
VL: 50
NO: 4
PG: 419-423
AD: University of Texas, Houston Health Science Center, School of Public Health, 77030, USA.
KY: CMRA7.2;B1;C12;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - observational data;CMRA4
AB: Randomized trials are the optimal approach for evaluations of treatment efficacy but may not always be feasible. We study the adequacy of the case-control design in evaluating efficacy in a situation where the investigated therapy, namely the administration of magnesium sulfate for the prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia, has a suspected strong protective effect. A total of 66 cases of eclampsia were ascertained from among deliveries occurring between 1977 and 1992 at two hospitals in Houston, Texas. Randomly selected preeclamptic controls were matched to cases based on hospital and month of delivery. Magnesium sulfate administration prior to seizure occurrence had a strong protective effect against eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia (OR, 0.02; 95% CI, 0.01-0.05). This protective effect remained when controls were stratified by the degree of severity of preeclampsia (mild-to-moderate OR, 0.03, 95% CI, 0.01-0.09 and severe OR, 0.005; 95% CI, 0.0005-0.04) and when cases were stratified by the timing of the first seizure (antepartum and intrapartum seizures OR, 0.01; 95% CI, 0.003-0.05 and postpartum seizures OR, 0.03; 95% CI, 0.005-0.15). The effect also remained after adjustment for other important predictors in a multivariate logistic regression model (OR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.03-0.38). The results of this study are in support of a recent randomized trial on the efficacy of magnesium sulfate as a prophylactic agent against eclampsia. Although there are serious potential sources of bias in this study, the magnitude of the protective effect of magnesium sulfate minimizes the likelihood that this effect can be explained by bias. Observational studies could be appropriate complements or alternatives to randomized trials in situations where a strong treatment effect is expected
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1232/frame.html


Record #95 of 113
ID: CMR-631
AU: Langhorne P
TI: Interpreting the outcomes of stroke rehabilitation trials [abstract]
SO: Second International Conference Scientific Basis of Health Services & Fifth Annual Cochrane Colloquium; 1997 Oct 8-12; Amsterdam, The Netherlands
YR: 1997
PG: 88
AD: Academic Section of Geriatric Medicine, Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK
KY: B4;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - different endpoints;CMRA4;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES: Conducting systematic reviews of stroke rehabilitation services are complicated by the range of different outcome measures used in the primary trials. Statistical approaches such as the standardised effect size can permit some pooling of outcome data but raise both methodological difficulties and problems of interpretation. We have therefore surveyed the available randomised trials of stroke rehabilitation services to establish; 1) the range of outcome measures used, 2) their comparability of content, 3) whether apparently comparable measures of disability and handicap had comparable utility in identifying important patient outcome groups. DESIGN: The survey of stroke rehabilitation trials identified the most commonly used measures of disability and handicap. These were then applied in two cohort of stroke patients within 6 months of discharge from hospital. These patients were categorised into three (reference) disability groups; 1) full independence - capable of living independently at a private address, 2) limited independence - capable of personal activities of daily living but requiring help with domestic and social activities, 3) dependent - requiring nursing support in daily activities. Measures of handicap were compared against a self rated quality of health ("good/excellent" vs "poor/very poor"). The ability of different outcome measures to discriminate patient outcomes were analysed using receiver operator curves and reported as their peak accuracy. RESULTS: Over 40 outcome measures were identified although the 10 commonest measures (3 disability, 5 handicap, 2 "global" outcome measures) were used in 41/54 (76%) of trials. The disability and "global" measures were good discriminators of the disability groups (accuracy 0.81 - 0.96 and 0.79 - 0.82 respectively). Handicap and "global" were poorer predictors of self-rated quality of health (accuracy 0.67 - 0.76; 0.57 - 0.58 respectively). CONCLUSION: When faced with different measures of similar outcome domains, it may be possible to establish reliable points at which to dichotomise different outcome measures to provide comparable and meaningful results. This approach appears more promising for measures of disability than for handicap.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-631/frame.html


Record #96 of 113
ID: CMR-757
AU: Jefferson T
AU: Demicheli V
TI: Economic evaluation of influenza vaccination and economic modelling: can results be pooled?
SO: PharmacoEconomics
YR: 1996
VL: 9
NO: Suppl 3
PG: 67-72
AD: Ministry of Defence, Army Medical Directorate, Koegh Barracks, Ash Vale, Hampshire, UK.
KY: B1;C10;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - economic data;CMRA3;CMRA5.1
AB: Scientific reviewing methods were applied to economic studies of influenza vaccination, and an economic model of influenza vaccination was developed from these primary sources. Issues arising from the secondary literature review include the quality of evidence on the effectiveness of the vaccines, the absence of a traditional population-based approach to reviewing economic data, confusion in terminolgy, and how to generalise from resouce data contained in primary evaluations. Data from the literature review were summarised in terms of resource units used in the prevention and treatment of influenza. An economic model was construceted using local unit costs (from the Emilia region of Italy) and applying the data to a notional population. The model was sensitive to length of stay in hospital but not to variation in incidence of influenza, days off work or number of medical consultations. The model was predicated on and is sensitive to an estimate of 80% vaccine effectiveness. The approach is constrained by the available data, but could be more generally useful in that it allows variations in the quantity of inputs to be considered separately from variations in their values. The model may be used locally as a decision-making tool, although the method needs further development.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-757/frame.html


Record #97 of 113
ID: CMR-2246
AU: Lopez Munoz F
AU: Marin F
AU: Boya J
TI: [Bibliometric evaluation of the Spanish scientific output in neurosciences. Analysis of the publication with international readership between 1984 and 1993]
SO: Revista de Neurologia
YR: 1996
VL: 24
NO: 128
PG: 417-426
AD: Departamento de Histologia, Faculated de Medicina, Universidad Complutense., Madrid.
KY: CMR: Systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: A bibliometric study was made of the Spanish scientific output in the Neurosciences between 1984 and 1993. The material studied was selected in accordance with the Science Citation Index (SCI) for the year 1993 (Neurosciences section) and from the journals considered to be a "priority' by the data base Excepta Medica CD: Neurosciences. The usual bibliometric rules were used: price's law of scientific literature growth, Bradford's law of scientific literature dispersal and Lotka's law of author productivity. The national participation indices (IPa) in the leading publications with an international readership, the % SUP index (% of documents included in 10% of the world top quality production), the authors/articles index, institutional contributions and the geographical origin of these were all analyzed also. Our results showed an exponential growth in the Spanish neuroscientific literature (correlation coefficient: 0.981) and increasing IPa (period 1984-1988; 0.88; period 1989-1993: 1.59). A total of 1,488 original documents were analyzed. There was an impact factor (FI) of over 3 in 20.8% of the articles, with an average FI of 2.701. The % SUP was 6.07. The journal with the largest numbers of original papers in Brain Research (Bradford's first zone) with 186 articles and the largest IPa was in the Journal of Pineal Research (8.403). The total number of authors was 2,470, total signatures of authors were 5,958 (3.04% of the authors had a productivity index (IP) > or = 1 and 57% an IP = 0. The average number of authors/article was 4.02. The origin of the articles was: University (56.77%), Hospital (26.73%) and CSIC (14.95%). Scientific production was concentrated in the CCAA of Madrid and Cataluna 55.93%, followed by Andalucia, Castilla-Leon and Valencia (22.57%).
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2246/frame.html


Record #98 of 113
ID: CMR-787
AU: Margitic SE
AU: Morgan TM
AU: Sager MA
AU: Furberg CD
TI: Lessons learned from a prospective meta-analysis
SO: Journal of the American Geriatrics Society
YR: 1995
VL: 43
NO: 4
PG: 435-9
AD: Department of Public Health Sciences, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1063, USA.
KY: B1;C11;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - prospective meta-analysis;CMRA4;CMRA5.1
AB: OBJECTIVE: To describe the unique aspects of and the lessons learned in planning and conducting a pooled analysis of multiple trials evaluating interventions to reduce functional decline in hospitalized older persons. Specific examples from the Hospital Outcomes Project for the Elderly (HOPE) meta-analysis are discussed. DESIGN: A prospective meta- analysis (PMA) that compiled and pooled data from concurrently conducted clinical trials testing related but distinct interventions. SETTING: The Data Coordinating Center for the prospective meta-analysis coordinated the collection and analysis of common outcome data from five university-affiliated hospitals and one community hospital conducting the clinical trials. PARTICIPANTS: Acutely ill hospitalized elderly participants at least 65 to 75 years old. INTERVENTIONS: Treatments being evaluated included exercise, physical therapy, a multidisciplinary geriatric care unit, a multidisciplinary in-hospital intervention with post-discharge care, a nursing-based geriatric care program, and a program to improve detection and evaluation of delirious patients. CONCLUSION: The prospective meta-analysis provides selected advantages over independently conducted clinical trials and retrospective meta-analyses. It does, however, pose special design and operational challenges that must be addressed well before initiation of the individual trials. Specific issues of concern include: maintaining scientific integrity of both the individual trials and the PMA; reaching consensus on PMA goals, what data to collect, how and when to collect them and how to maintain uniformly high quality data across all sites; defining the role of the Data Coordinating Center in a multicenter project that utilizes different trials and protocols; and establishing policies concerning analyses of the pooled data, publication of pooled analyses, and ownership of the pooled database OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Margitic SE, Morgan TM, Inouye SK, Landefeld CS, Durham NC, Sager MA, Thomas JL. Planning, designing and implementing a prospective meta-analysis study [abstract]. Controlled Clinical Trials 1991;12:631.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-787/frame.html


Record #99 of 113
ID: CMR-2146
AU: Bradley CA
AU: Iskedjian M
AU: Lanctot KL
AU: Mittmann N
AU: Simone C
AU: Pierre E
AU: Miller E
AU: Blatman B
AU: Chabursky B
AU: Einarson TR
TI: Quality assessment of economic evaluations in selected pharmacy, medical, and health economics journals
SO: Annals of Pharmacotherapy
YR: 1995
VL: 29
NO: 7-8
PG: 681-689
AD: Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
KY: CMR: Economic analysis; CMR: Presentation of reviews - quality assessments;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE: To assess and compare the quality of economic studies in selected pharmacy, medical, and health economics journals. DATA SOURCES: DICP The Annals of Pharmacotherapy, American Journal of Hospital Pharmacy, Hospital Pharmacy, New England Journal of Medicine, Medical Care, Journal of the American Medical Association, PharmacoEconomics, International Journal of Technology Assessment in Health Care, and Journal of Health Economics using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts. Search terms included "economic," "cost," and "cost analysis." STUDY SELECTION: Reviewers appraised abstracts to identify original research published during 1989-1993 comparing costs and outcomes between drugs, treatments, and/or services. Initially, 123 articles met criteria; 16 were inappropriate, 17 were randomized out, and 90 (73%) were used (30/group). DATA EXTRACTION: Quality was assessed using a 13-item checklist. Interrater reliability was 0.91 (p < 0.05) for 9 raters, test-retest reliability was 0.94 (p < 0.001). DATA SYNTHESIS: A 2-way ANOVA, with overall quality scores as a dependent variable with journal type and year as independent variables, was significant (F = 2.79, p = 0.002, r2 = 0.34), with no significant interaction (F = 0.71, p = 0.68) or time effect (F = 0.70, p = 0.60). Journal types differed; pharmacy journals scored significantly lower (chi 2 = 53.89, df = 2, p < 0.001). Items rated adequate (i.e., correct or acceptable) increased over time (chi 2 = 21.18, df = 4, p < 0.001). Ethical issues and study perspective most needed improvement. CONCLUSIONS: Article quality for all journal types increased over time nonsignificantly; health economics journals scored highest, then medical journals, with pharmacy journals significantly lower (and having the highest standard deviation). We recommend that authors and reviewers pay closer attention to study perspective and ethical implications.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2146/frame.html


Record #100 of 113
ID: CMR-4285
AU: Bennett CL
AU: Armitage JL
AU: LeSage S
AU: Gulati SC
AU: Armitage JO
AU: Gorin NC
TI: Economic analyses of clinical trials in cancer: are they helpful to policy makers?
SO: Stem Cells
YR: 1994
VL: 12
NO: 4
PG: 424-429
KY: CMR: Other methodology - economic analysis;CMRA4;CMRA6.1
AB: Although clinical trials are being used to evaluate economic outcomes of new agents, there are methodological problems. Decisions based on these analyses may lead to inefficient use of medical resources. Randomized clinical trials provide important information on the efficacy of new pharmaceutical agents for cancer patients. Policy makers are likely to require both economic and clinical data in order to approve pharmaceuticals for widespread use. Clinical trials provide an opportunity to evaluate economic outcomes for new agents. However, the interpretation of economic analyses of clinical trials raises issues related to perspective of the investigators, study design, collection of data on resource utilization, and generalizability of data to other settings. In this paper, we review these issues and illustrate problems associated with analyses of economic data from a recent phase III trial of hematopoietic growth factors. Clinical results were similar in both Paris and New York in this phase III trial. However, economic results differed markedly between the hospital in Paris and the hospital in New York. While significant savings in terms of fewer days in the hospital and fewer laboratory tests and radiographs for the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) patients were noted at the New York hospital, resource savings were not identified at the hospital in France. Caution must be used when reimbursement policies are based on economic analyses of clinical trials. Policy decisions must be based on studies that are carefully conducted, analyzed, and interpreted from both a clinical and an economic perspective.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4285/frame.html


Record #101 of 113
ID: CMR-7551
AU: Green LA
AU: Ruffin MT
TI: A closer examination of sex bias in the treatment of ischemic cardiac disease.
SO: Journal of Family Practice
YR: 1994
VL: 39
NO: 4
PG: 331-336
KY: CMR: Other methodology - gender, age or race bias;CMRA7.1
AB: BACKGROUND. Past studies have conflicted regarding the existence of sex bias in the treatment of women with ischemic cardiac disease. This study explored the effect of different analytic models on conclusions about sex bias. METHODS. A retrospective analysis of medical records was performed on 787 patients evaluated for potential acute cardiac ischemia in the emergency departments of two nonteaching community hospitals. The Acute Coronary Ischemia Time Insensitive Predictive Instrument (ACI-TIPI) was used to estimate the likelihood of ischemic disease. The decisions to admit to hospital, not to admit to hospital, and to discharge with diagnosis of myocardial infarction were the outcome variables. RESULTS. Logistic regression models of increasing levels of detail were applied and evaluated. Analysis using summary data (similar to discharge abstracts or claims data) revealed that patient sex affected admission decisions, but an analysis of clinically detailed data by hospital was required to reveal the nature of the effect. There was disparity in admission decisions by sex at one hospital but not at the other. The odds ratio for admission (women vs men) was 0.546 (95% CI, 0.33 to 0.91) at Hospital A, and 1.22 (95% CI, 0.72 to 2.05) at Hospital B. This disparity appeared to be related to a high rate of admission (67%) among men with low (< 10%) probability of acute ischemia. CONCLUSIONS. Differences in treatment of suspected acute cardiac ischemia by sex may be a practice variation phenomenon rather than a uniform bias. When these differences occur, they may represent overtreatment of men rather than inadequate treatment of women. Because summary or billing datasets lack clinical detail, they are inadequate for the study of physician decision-making.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-7551/frame.html


Record #102 of 113
ID: CMR-2057
AU: Johnson TP
AU: Ford L
AU: Warnecke RB
AU: Nayfield SG
AU: Kaluzny A
AU: Cutter G
AU: Gillings D
AU: Sondik E
AU: Ozer H
TI: Effect of a National Cancer Institute Clinical Alert on breast cancer practice patterns
SO: Journal of Clinical Oncology
YR: 1994
VL: 12
NO: 9
PG: 1783-1788
AD: Survey Research Laboratory, University of Illinois at Chicago 60607.
KY: CMR: Applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA2
AB: PURPOSE: This study evaluates the effect of the 1988 National Cancer Institute Clinical Alert regarding treatment of early-stage breast cancer on the patterns of treatment provided to patients. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data analyzed were collected from the hospital and outpatient records of 12,534 female patients with a primary diagnosis of breast cancer (stages I and II) initially diagnosed during the years 1983 through 1989. RESULTS: Analyses revealed that the proportions of patients with a negative lymph node status diagnosed after the May 1988 Clinical Alert who received adjuvant treatment (tamoxifen and/or multidrug chemotherapy) were significantly greater than predicted from treatment trends established before the Alert's release. Proportions of patients with positive lymph node status receiving adjuvant therapy subsequent to the Alert's release, in contrast, did not fall outside the projected confidence intervals for that group. Additional analyses showed a significant effect of the Clinical Alert among several subgroups of node-negative patients. CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that the Clinical Alert mechanism, followed by publication in the peer-reviewed scientific literature, is an effective way to communicate important research findings to practitioners in the community. However, the Alert mechanism is controversial and should be used judiciously to ensure its credibility. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Ford LG, Johnson T, Warnecke R, Kaluzny A, Shin P, Ozer H. Breast cancer practice patterns: evidence of a shift following a consensus conference (CC) or clinical alert (CA) [abstract] Proceedings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology 1992;11:142.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-2057/frame.html


Record #103 of 113
ID: CMR-3407
AU: Yola M
AU: Lucien A
TI: Evidence of the depletion of susceptibles effect in non-experimental pharmacoepidemiologic research
SO: Journal of Clinical Epidemiology
YR: 1994
VL: 47
NO: 7
PG: 731-737
KY: CMR: Meta-analysis - rare events;CMRA7.1
AB: Past experience with a drug may modify the risk of adverse event associated with current use of this drug. This effect was investigated empirically with a study on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)-gastropathy. A hospital-based case-control study was conducted with 244 cases of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB) age 68 and over and 615 matched controls. Data on all medications dispensed to the study patients during the 3 years preceding admission were obtained from the Quebec universal prescription program automated database. Recent use (within 30 days prior to admission) of non-aspirin NSAIDs increased the risk of UGIB. The estimate of relative risk (RR) was 3.4 (CI, 2.1-5.5). Use of NSAIDs in the previous 3 years was associated with a lower risk of UGIB; the estimate of RR was 0.7 (CI, 0.4-1.0). The estimate of RR for first-time users was 22.7 (2.8-200.0) vs 3.0 (1.9-4.7) for those who had used the drugs at least once in the past 3 years. These results provide empirical evidence of a depletion of susceptibles effect whereby patients who remain on the drugs are those who can tolerate them while those who are susceptible select themselves out of the population at risk. Thus, past use should be considered as a potential risk modifier in non-experimental risk assessment of events associated with drug use.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-3407/frame.html


Record #104 of 113
ID: CMR-1989
AU: Cami J
AU: Fernandez MT
AU: Gomez Caridad I
TI: [Spanish scientific production in biomedicine and health. A study via the Science Citation Index (1986-1989)]
SO: Medicina Clinica (Barcelona)
YR: 1993
VL: 101
NO: 19
PG: 721-731
AD: Institut Municipal d'Investigacio Medica (IMIM), Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona.
KY: CMR: Systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND: There is no detailed information on the scientific production in biomedicine from the perspective of the centers which make up the National Health Care System. Nor has any analysis on productivity by specialties compared with that of other countries of the European Community (EC) been carried out. METHODS: The methodology used and the global results of a study performed from biomedical investigation documents indexed in the SCI from 1986 to 1989 and signed by a Spanish health care center are presented. Quantitative and qualitative indicators (Narin index, impact factor [IF], mean IF per specialty, expected and observed IF as well as denominators [PIB, number of inhabitants per area, cost and number of personnel of the centers]). RESULTS: Twelve thousand seven hundred and six documents were studied of which 66.7% were journal articles and 13.5% were studies carried out in cooperation with foreign countries. The biomedical production was 41.5% of all the Spanish scientific investigation collected in the SCI in the same period and represented 3.82% of the contribution of all the biomedical investigation of the EC. Universities were responsible for 46% of the documents analyzed followed by hospitals with 39%. The autonomic communities of Madrid (32%) and Catalonia (26%) have the most productivity principally in hospitals, followed by Andalucia (10%) and Valencia (7%). The subject matters of greatest production were biochemistry, and molecular biology (14.7%), pharmacology and pharmacy (7.6%), neurosciences (6.8%) and microbiology (5.7%). Qualitative analysis showed that despite the investigation in some subject areas being carried out in journals with an IF higher than the world mean, the citations received by the studies are lower than expected. CONCLUSIONS: Despite the growth in Spanish biomedical production, Spain only occupies seventh place in the EC. Madrid and Barcelona notably concentrate on biomedical investigation from the hospital network. The relativization of the data describes the existence of other noteworthy geographic areas not outside the university. The ever greater diffusion of the publications contrasts with the citations received for the studies which may be the result of phenomena related with the quality of the studies and/or the recognition of the publications signed by Spanish authors.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1989/frame.html


Record #105 of 113
ID: CMR-1960
AU: Guardiola E
AU: Banos JE
TI: [International diffusion of the Spanish research on pain. Analysis of the period 1981-1990]
SO: Revista Espanola de Anestesiologia Y Reanimacion
YR: 1993
VL: 40
NO: 4
PG: 191-195
AD: Unidad de Informacion y Documentacion Medica, Q.F. Bayer, Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona.
KY: CMR: Study identification - language bias;CMRA3
AB: BACKGROUND. The significance of pain in medical practice has excited considerable interest among both practicing physicians and researchers. In Spain, interest in this field has come late. OBJECTIVE. To analyze the international dissemination of Spanish pain research during the period from 1981 through 1990. METHODS. All articles reporting research carried out in Spain and published during the period under study were collected and analyzed if they included the term "pain" as a keyword. The data bases used for collection were CD-ROM versions of Excerpta Medica CD Drugs & Pharmacology and MEDLINE. RESULTS. Articles considering pain to be a main topic numbered 228. Spanish contributions to the field tripled in the period studied. Half the articles were generated by either Anesthesia and Intensive Care or Pharmacology departments and were published mainly in REVISTA ESPANOLA DE ANESTESIOLOGIA Y REANIMACION (51), Medicina Clinica (17) and Revista Clinica Espanola (10). Most of the published articles reported clinical research (192), particularly in the areas of cancer pain (29), trials (20), and postoperative (20), neurological (15) and joint (12) pain. Most (67.6%) were published in Spanish. Although most articles listed four or more authors, only 2.4% of the authors and 17.7% of the centers published more than three articles. Most studies were carried out in hospitals (69.1%) or universities (18.2%), principally in Catalonia (26.7%), Madrid (18.2%) and Andalusia (17%). CONCLUSIONS. In spite of increased research seen in recent years, the dissemination of Spanish science may be limited because of its publications mainly in Spanish. Research is scattered, with only a small number of authors following a continuous line of research.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1960/frame.html


Record #106 of 113
ID: CMR-131
AU: Dickersin K
AU: Min YI
AU: Meinert CL
TI: Factors influencing publication of research results. Follow up of applications submitted to two institutional review boards
SO: JAMA
YR: 1992
VL: 263
NO: 3
PG: 374-8
AD: Department of Ophthalmology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore 21201, USA
KY: B1;CMR: Review methodology - study identification - publication bias;CMRA2;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVE.--To investigate factors associated with the publication of research findings, in particular, the association between "significant" results and publication. DESIGN.--Follow-up study. SETTING.--Studies approved in 1980 or prior to 1980 by the two institutional review boards that serve The Johns Hopkins Health Institutions--one that serves the School of Medicine and Hospital and the other that serves the School of Hygiene and Public Health. POPULATION.--A total of 737 studies were followed up. RESULTS.--Of the studies for which analyses had been reported as having been performed at the time of interview, 81% from the School of Medicine and Hospital and 66% from the School of Hygiene and Public Health had been published. Publication was not associated with sample size, presence of a comparison group, or type of study (eg, observational study vs clinical trial). External funding and multiple data collection sites were positively associated with publication. There was evidence of publication bias in that for both institutional review boards there was an association between results reported to be significant and publication (adjusted odds ratio, 2.54; 95% confidence interval, 1.63 to 3.94). Contrary to popular opinion, publication bias originates primarily with investigators, not journal editors: only six of the 124 studies not published were reported to have been rejected for publication. CONCLUSION.-- There is a statistically significant association between significant results and publication. OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH: Dickersin K, Meinert CL. Risk factors for publication bias: results of a follow-up study [abstract]. Controlled Clinical Trials 1990;11:255.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-131/frame.html


Record #107 of 113
ID: CMR-1762
AU: McKibbon KA
AU: Haynes RB
AU: Johnston ME
AU: Walker CJ
TI: A study to enhance clinical end-user MEDLINE search skills: design and baseline findings
SO: Proc-Annu-Symp-Comput-Appl-Med-Care
YR: 1991
PG: 73-77
AD: Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
KY: CMR: Information retrieval - general;CMRA2
AB: OBJECTIVE: To determine if a preceptor and timely, individualized feedback improves the performance of physicians in searching MEDLINE using GRATEFUL MED in clinical settings. DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial. SETTING: A 300 bed primary to tertiary care teaching hospital. Computers were installed in wards and clinics of 6 major clinical services, and the emergency room, intensive care and neonatal intensive care units. SUBJECTS: All physicians and physicians-in-training from the departments of Medicine, Family Medicine, Surgery, Psychiatry, Pediatrics, and Obstetrics and Gynecology were included if they made patient care decisions for at least 8 weeks during the study period. INTERVENTION: All participants were given a 1-hour training class and 1 hour of individualized searching with 1 of the 2 study librarians. After training, participants were randomized to a control group who received no further intervention or to an intervention group in which each person chose a clinical preceptor experienced in MEDLINE searching and received individualized feedback by a study librarian on their first 10 searches, indicating search quality and providing suggestions for improvement. Feedback was mailed the first week day after the search was done. MAIN MEASURES: Baseline characteristics by study group, department and level of training, study participation rates, and searching rates. MAIN RESULTS: 308 of 392 eligible physicians joined the study. Participation was almost 80% with some variation by department and level of training. Excellent balance in the baseline characteristics was achieved for the 2 groups, as well as for the number who did first searches. Intervention group participants searched MEDLINE more often than did controls (3.5 searches per month vs 2.5 per month for controls, P = 0.046). The recall and precision for first searches for both groups was significantly less than that of librarians. The analysis of study data will be completed by September 1991. CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians are willing to do self-service searching of MEDLINE in clinical settings but their precision and recall are less than a trained librarian at baseline. Search skills enhancements are needed and the effect of feedback and preceptors is being tested. SOURCE OF FUNDING: U.S. National Library of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1762/frame.html


Record #108 of 113
ID: CMR-212
AU: Mugford M
AU: Kingston J
AU: Chalmers I
TI: Reducing the incidence of infection after caesarean section: implications of prophylaxis with antibiotics for hospital resources [see comments]
SO: BMJ
YR: 1989
VL: 299
NO: 6706
PG: 1003-1006
AD: National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK
KY: B1;C10;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - economic data;CMRA7.2;CMRA3
AB: OBJECTIVES--To estimate the cost effectiveness of giving prophylactic antibiotics routinely to reduce the incidence of wound infection after caesarean section. DESIGN--Estimation of cost effectiveness was based, firstly, on a retrospective overview of 58 controlled trials and, secondly, on evidence about costs derived from data and observations of practice. SETTING-- Trials included in the overview were from obstetric units in several different countries, including the United Kingdom. The costing study was based on data referring to the John Radcliffe Maternity Hospital, Oxford. SUBJECTS--A total of 7777 women were included in the 58 controlled trials comparing the effects of giving routine prophylactic antibiotics at caesarean section with either treatment with a placebo or no treatment. Cost estimates were based on data on 486 women who had caesarean sections between January and September 1987. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE--Cost effectiveness of prophylaxis with antibiotics. RESULTS--The odds of wound infection are likely to be reduced by between about 50 and 70% by giving antibiotics routinely at caesarean section. Forty one (8.4%) women who had caesarean section were coded by the Oxford obstetric data system as having developed wound infection. The additional average cost of hospital postnatal care for women with wound infection (compared with women who had had caesarean section and no wound infection) was estimated to be 716 pounds; introducing routine prophylaxis with antibiotics would reduce average costs of postnatal care by between 1300 pounds and 3900/100 pounds caesarean sections (at 1988 prices), depending on the cost of the antibiotic used and its effectiveness. CONCLUSIONS--The results suggest that giving antibiotics routinely at caesarean section will not only reduce rates of infection after caesarean section but also reduce costs.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-212/frame.html


Record #109 of 113
ID: CMR-4410
AU: Anonymous
TI: The Beta-Blocker Pooling Project (BBPP): subgroup findings from randomized trials in post infarction patients. The Beta-Blocker Pooling Project Research Group
SO: European Heart Journal
YR: 1988
VL: 9
NO: 1
PG: 8-16
KY: CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - subgroup analysis;CMRA6.1
AB: The objective of the Beta-Blocker Pooling Project (BBPP) was to collect and analyse data from the major long-term secondary prevention trials in order to determine whether there are subsets of post-infarction patients who benefit to a greater or lesser extent from beta-blocker therapy than the average patient population. One-year all-cause mortality data from nine trials involving 13,679 patients were obtained. Overall, mortality was 24% lower in the beta-blocker group compared to the placebo group. However, there was heterogeneity among the results of the trials, which tested seven different beta-blockers. Subgroups with high placebo group mortality (e.g. patients with a history of previous myocardial infarction (MI), angina pectoris, mechanical or electrical complications, and digitalis usage) seemed to benefit particularly from beta-blocker treatment. These findings were consistent in the nine trials. Patients in the lower risk subgroups also appeared to benefit from beta-blockers, but this benefit was smaller in absolute terms and inconsistent across the trials. There was no evidence that treatment outcome was related to gender, baseline level of heart rate or blood pressure, or time of initiation of treatment after hospital admission. In conclusion, the Pooling Project indicates that high risk MI patients, without contraindications to beta-blockers, are the prime candidates for long-term therapy, but the lower risk patients may also receive some benefit.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-4410/frame.html


Record #110 of 113
ID: CMR-1492
AU: Souza CA
AU: Lima JA
AU: Schmitt CM
AU: Piegas MH
AU: Peixinho A
AU: Schmidt A
AU: Lemos AA
TI: [Brazilian biomedical publications in the international scientific literature. Endemic communicable diseases]
SO: Educacion Medica y Salud
YR: 1986
VL: 20
NO: 1
PG: 72-85
KY: CMR: Review methodology - study identification - language bias;CMR: Review methodology - systematic reviews - history and epidemiology of reviews;CMRA3
AB: The number of Brazilian periodicals listed in the Index Medicus dropped from 70 in 1964 to 15 in 1983, or 78%, while the total number of listed periodicals from other countries fell only 11%. The total number of articles published in Brazil on Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, leprosy, malaria, and filariasis, and listed in the Index Medicus did not change significantly between 1965 and 1982, because, with the exception of the journal O Hospital, the Brazilian periodicals that published 74% of all articles on those diseases remained listed throughout the period considered. The predominant subjects in articles on endemic diseases were Chagas' disease and schistosomiasis, and in the later years there was a tendency to index more articles on basic than on applied research. The number of articles on Chagas' disease published by Brazilian authors directly in foreign journals increased considerably during the latter decade. Analysis of all the data together suggests that the developed countries select a specific portion of the Brazilian output of biomedical literature--which is kept listed in secondary and international publications or published directly in foreign journals--while another portion of the same output gradually loses visibility on the international scene.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1492/frame.html


Record #111 of 113
ID: CMR-1451
AU: Swanson GM
AU: Schwartz AG
AU: Burrows RW
TI: An assessment of occupation and industry data from death certificates and hospital medical records for population-based cancer surveillance
SO: American Journal of Public Health
YR: 1984
VL: 74
NO: 5
PG: 464-467
KY: CMR: Review methodology - critical appraisal - general;CMRA3
AB: This study analyzed 30,194 incident cases and 4,301 death certificates for completeness of occupational reporting. Analysis of data accuracy was based upon a comparison of more than 2,000 death certificates with incident abstracts and 352 death certificates with interview data. Death certificates had a higher proportion with occupation (94.3%) and industry (93.4%) reported than did incident abstracts of hospital medical records (39.0% and 63.5%, respectively). Compared with occupational history data obtained by interview, 76.1% of the death certificates were exact matches for usual occupation and industry.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1451/frame.html


Record #112 of 113
ID: CMR-1362
AU: Morton DJ
TI: Analysis of interlibrary requests by hospital libraries for photocopied journal articles
SO: Bulletin of the Medical Library Association
YR: 1977
VL: 65
NO: 4
PG: 425-432
KY: CMR: Review methodology - applicability & recommendations - assessments of the impact of research;CMRA4
AB: A study of the 1975 borrowing requests made by all hospital libraries in central western Massachusetts showed that there were 4,368 requests for articles contained in 1,071 different periodical titles. The numbers of requests per title ranged from eighty-nine for one title to one for each of 123 titles. A graph of the data showed a geometric progression, and the Bradford constants for this dispersion averaged 1.28. The percentage of total requests related to the age of requested issues varied from 62.48% for items not over five years old and 78.15% for issues not over ten years, to 95.57% for materials not over thirty years old. Bradford constants averaged 2.13. Of the thirty most requested periodical titles, sixteen were published in foreign countries, as follows: England--ten; Netherlands--three; Australia--one; Canada--one; and Sweden--one. The study's significance included its total coverage of a relatively large and isolated region, its focus upon the records of requesting rather than lending libraries, and its analysis of interlibrary rather than in-house activities.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-1362/frame.html


Record #113 of 113
ID: CMR-117
AU: Chalmers TC
AU: Matta RJ
AU: Smith H
AU: Jr
AU: Kunzler AM
TI: Evidence favoring the use of anticoagulants in the hospital phase of acute myocardial infarction
SO: New England Journal of Medicine
YR: 1977
VL: 297
NO: 20
PG: 1091-1096
KY: B1;CMR: Review methodology - meta-analysis - survival data;C8;CMRA5.2;CMRA3
AB: Since the last comprehensive review of anticoagulation in acute myocardial infarction four additional randomized control trials have been reported. The overwhelming majority of all trials favored anticoagulation. Rates of thromboembolism were higher in the control, and hemorrhagic complications in the anticoagulated group. Pooling of all randomized control trials gives mean case fatality rates of 19.6% for the control and 15.4% for the anticoagulated group, a relative reduction of 21% (P less than 0.05 or less than 0.001, depending on the analytic method). Five of six randomized control trials reproted "no effect" because the difference favoring anticoagulation was not statistically significant. However, sample sizes in these "negative" papers were too small to protect against missing a 21% reduction in true case fatality rate due to anticoagulation (beta greater than 0.10). All patients who present no specific contraindication should receive anticoagulants during hospitalization for infarction.
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clcmr/articles/CMR-117/frame.html


Economic evaluations:
Record #1 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22013022688
AU: Chang AM
AU: Ho JC
AU: Yan BP
AU: Yu CM
AU: Lam YY
AU: Lee VW
TI: Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with warfarin for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation: a real patient data analysis in a Hong Kong teaching hospital (Provisional abstract)
SO: Clinical Cardiology
YR: 2013
VL: 36
NO: 5
PG: 280-285
KY: Anticoagulants [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];Atrial Fibrillation [complications] [diagnosis] [drug therapy] [economics];Benzimidazoles [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];beta-Alanine [adverse effects] [analogs & derivatives] [economics] [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Drug Costs;Drug Utilization [economics];Drug Utilization Review;Health Expenditures;Hong Kong;Hospital Costs;Hospitals, Teaching [economics];Preventive Health Services [economics];Retrospective Studies;Stroke [diagnosis] [economics] [etiology] [prevention & control];Treatment Outcome;Warfarin [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22013022688/frame.html


Record #2 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22013043793
AU: Ghislandi S
AU: Torbica A
AU: Boriani G
TI: Assessing the outcomes of implantable cardioverter defibrillator treatment in a real world setting: results from hospital record data (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Health Services Research
YR: 2013
VL: 13
NO: 2
PG: 100
KY: Confidence Intervals;Databases, Factual;Defibrillators, Implantable;Hospital Records;Italy;Length of Stay;Matched-Pair Analysis;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [methods];Patient Readmission;Survival Rate;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22013043793/frame.html


Record #3 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22013013590
AU: Sakowski JA
AU: Ketchel A
TI: The cost of implementing inpatient bar code medication administration (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Managed Care
YR: 2013
VL: 19
NO: 2
PG: e38-45
KY: Automatic Data Processing [economics];Costs and Cost Analysis [methods];Diffusion of Innovation;Efficiency, Organizational;Hospital Costs;Hospitalization;Medication Errors [economics] [prevention & control];Medication Systems, Hospital [economics] [organization & administration];Pharmacy Service, Hospital [economics] [organization & administration];Retrospective Studies
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22013013590/frame.html


Record #4 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22013024293
AU: Coronini-Cronberg S
AU: Appleby J
AU: Thompson J
TI: Application of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) data to estimate cost-effectiveness of hernia surgery in England (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine
YR: 2013
VL: 106
NO: 7
PG: 278-287
KY: Activities of Daily Living;Confidence Intervals;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Economics, Hospital;England;Health Care Costs;Hernia, Inguinal [economics] [surgery];Herniorrhaphy [economics] [methods];Hospitals;Laparoscopy [economics];Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [economics];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Quality of Life;Surveys and Questionnaires;Self Report;State Medicine;Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22013024293/frame.html


Record #5 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22013016488
AU: Walker S
AU: Girardin F
AU: McKenna C
AU: Ball SG
AU: Nixon J
AU: Plein S
AU: Greenwood JP
AU: Sculpher M
TI: Cost-effectiveness of cardiovascular magnetic resonance in the diagnosis of coronary heart disease: an economic evaluation using data from the CE-MARC study (Structured abstract)
SO: Heart
YR: 2013
VL: 99
NO: 12
PG: 873-881
KY: Coronary Disease [diagnosis] [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Decision Support Techniques;Great Britain;Hospital Costs [trends];Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Cine [economics];Models, Economic;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22013016488/frame.html


Record #6 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012016467
AU: Myers AL
AU: Williams RF
AU: Giles K
AU: Waters TM
AU: Eubanks JW
AU: Hixson SD
AU: Huang EY
AU: Langham MR
AU: Blakely ML
TI: Hospital cost analysis of a prospective, randomized trial of early vs interval appendectomy for perforated appendicitis in children (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of the American College of Surgeons
YR: 2012
VL: 214
NO: 4
PG: 427-434
KY: Appendectomy [economics] [methods];Appendicitis [economics] [surgery];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Intention to Treat Analysis;numerical data;Patient Readmission [economics];Postoperative Complications [economics];Prospective Studies;Tennessee;Time Factors;Treatment Outcome;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012016467/frame.html


Record #7 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012026989
AU: Huang LH
AU: Zhang L
AU: Tobe RY
AU: Qi FH
AU: Sun L
AU: Teng Y
AU: Ke QL
AU: Mai F
AU: Zhang XF
AU: Zhang M
AU: Yang RL
AU: Tu L
AU: Li HH
AU: Gu YQ
AU: Xu SN
AU: Yue XY
AU: Li XD
AU: Qi BE
AU: Cheng XH
AU: Tang W
AU: Xu LZ
AU: Han DM
TI: Cost-effectiveness analysis of neonatal hearing screening program in China: should universal screening be prioritized? (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Health Services Research
YR: 2012
VL: 12
NO: 2
PG: 97
KY: China;Cost-Benefit Analysis [trends];Cost Savings [statistics & numerical data];Databases, Factual;Education, Special [economics];Health Services Accessibility [economics];Hearing Disorders [diagnosis] [therapy];Hearing Loss [diagnosis] [rehabilitation] [therapy];Hearing Tests [economics] [methods];Hospitals, Maternity;Hospitals, Pediatric;Infant, Newborn;Models, Statistical;National Health Programs;Neonatal Screening [economics];numerical data [trends];Program Evaluation;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Quality of Life;Humans[checkword];Infant[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012026989/frame.html


Record #8 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012022024
AU: Kossovsky M
AU: Keller PF
AU: Mach F
AU: Gaspoz JM
TI: Fondaparinux versus enoxaprin in the management of acute coronary syndromes in Switzerland: a cost comparison analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: Swiss Medical Weekly
YR: 2012
VL: 142
NO: 2
PG: w13536
KY: Acute Coronary Syndrome [drug therapy] [economics];Anticoagulants [economics] [therapeutic use];Costs and Cost Analysis;Drug Costs [statistics & numerical data];Enoxaparin [economics] [therapeutic use];Factor X;Follow-Up Studies;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [economics];numerical data;Polysaccharides [economics] [therapeutic use];Retrospective Studies;Switzerland;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012022024/frame.html


Record #9 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012016770
AU: Weaver CS
AU: Myers IJ
AU: Huffman G
AU: Vohito R
AU: Herceg D
TI: An analysis of a case manager-driven emergent dialysis program (Provisional abstract)
SO: Professional Case Management
YR: 2012
VL: 17
NO: 1
PG: 24-28
KY: administration;Case Management [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Chi-Square Distribution;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [organization & administration];Emigrants and Immigrants;Feasibility Studies;Hospitals, Urban;Intensive Care Units;Kidney Failure, Chronic [economics] [therapy];Length of Stay;numerical data;Organizational Case Studies;Renal Dialysis [economics] [methods];Retrospective Studies;Statistics as Topic;United States;Urban Population;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012016770/frame.html


Record #10 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012029691
AU: Abbott DE
AU: Cantor SB
AU: Hu CY
AU: Aloia TA
AU: You YN
AU: Nguyen S
AU: Chang GJ
TI: Optimizing clinical and economic outcomes of surgical therapy for patients with colorectal cancer and synchronous liver metastases (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of the American College of Surgeons
YR: 2012
VL: 215
NO: 2
PG: 262-270
KY: Cohort Studies;Colectomy [economics] [methods];Colorectal Neoplasms [economics] [mortality] [pathology] [surgery];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Decision Support Techniques;Decision Trees;Follow-Up Studies;Hepatectomy [economics] [methods];Hospital Costs;Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Liver Neoplasms [economics] [mortality] [secondary] [surgery];Medicare;Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Postoperative Complications [economics] [epidemiology];Reimbursement Mechanisms;Retrospective Studies;Survival Analysis;Texas;Treatment Outcome;United States;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012029691/frame.html


Record #11 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012012136
AU: Woods ER
AU: Bhaumik U
AU: Sommer SJ
AU: Ziniel SI
AU: Kessler AJ
AU: Chan E
AU: Wilkinson RB
AU: Sesma MN
AU: Burack AB
AU: Klements EM
AU: Queenin LM
AU: Dickerson DU
AU: Nethersole S
TI: Community Asthma Initiative: evaluation of a quality improvement program for comprehensive asthma care (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pediatrics
YR: 2012
VL: 129
NO: 3
PG: 465-472
KY: administration;Asthma [diagnosis] [economics] [therapy];Community Health Services [organization & administration];Comprehensive Health Care [organization & administration];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost Savings;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [utilization];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Logistic Models;Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Program Development;Program Evaluation;Quality Improvement;Risk Assessment;Severity of Illness Index;Socioeconomic Factors;United States;Urban Population;Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012012136/frame.html


Record #12 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012012108
AU: Morimae H
AU: Maekawa T
AU: Tamai H
AU: Takahashi N
AU: Ihara T
AU: Hori A
AU: Narita H
AU: Banno H
AU: Kobayashi M
AU: Yamamoto K
AU: Komori K
TI: Cost disparity between open repair and endovascular aneurysm repair for abdominal aortic aneurysm: a single-institute experience in Japan (Provisional abstract)
SO: Surgery Today
YR: 2012
VL: 42
NO: 2
PG: 121-126
KY: Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal [economics] [surgery];Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation [economics] [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Endovascular Procedures [economics] [methods];Follow-Up Studies;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Laparotomy [economics] [methods];Length of Stay [economics];numerical data;Retrospective Studies;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012012108/frame.html


Record #13 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012008288
AU: Adogwa O
AU: Parker SL
AU: Shau DN
AU: Mendenhall SK
AU: Aaronson O
AU: Cheng JS
AU: Devin CJ
AU: Mcgirt MJ
TI: Cost per quality-adjusted life year gained of revision neural decompression and instrumented fusion for same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis: defining the value of surgical intervention (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Neurosurgery Spine
YR: 2012
VL: 16
NO: 2
PG: 135-140
KY: Ambulatory Care [economics] [utilization];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Decompression, Surgical [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Health Expenditures [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Lumbar Vertebrae [surgery];numerical data;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Recurrence;Reoperation [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Spinal Fusion [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Spinal Stenosis [economics] [surgery];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012008288/frame.html


Record #14 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012037979
AU: Donaldson EA
AU: Holtgrave DR
AU: Duffin RA
AU: Feltner F
AU: Funderburk W
AU: Freeman HP
TI: Patient navigation for breast and colorectal cancer in 3 community hospital settings: an economic evaluation (Structured abstract)
SO: Cancer
YR: 2012
VL: 118
NO: 19
PG: 4851-4859
KY: Biopsy [economics];Breast Neoplasms [economics] [epidemiology];Colonoscopy [economics];Colorectal Neoplasms [economics] [epidemiology];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Decision Support Techniques;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Healthcare Disparities;Hospitals, Community [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Mammography [economics];Mass Screening [economics] [methods];Medically Underserved Area;Poverty [economics];United States [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012037979/frame.html


Record #15 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012009226
AU: Howington JA
AU: Gunnarsson CL
AU: Maddaus MA
AU: McKenna RJ
AU: Meyers BF
AU: Miller D
AU: Moore M
AU: Rizzo JA
AU: Swanson S
TI: In-hospital clinical and economic consequences of pulmonary wedge resections for cancer using video-assisted thoracoscopic techniques vs traditional open resections: a retrospective database analysis (Structured abstract)
SO: Chest
YR: 2012
VL: 141
NO: 2
PG: 429-435
KY: Chi-Square Distribution;Databases, Factual;Least-Squares Analysis;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Logistic Models;Lung Neoplasms [economics] [surgery];numerical data;Pneumonectomy [methods];Retrospective Studies;Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted;Thoracotomy [methods];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012009226/frame.html


Record #16 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012003601
AU: Desborough JA
AU: Sach T
AU: Bhattacharya D
AU: Holland RC
AU: Wright DJ
TI: A cost-consequences analysis of an adherence focused pharmacist-led medication review service (Structured abstract)
SO: International Journal of Pharmacy Practice
YR: 2012
VL: 20
NO: 1
PG: 41-49
KY: administration;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost Savings;dosage [economics];Drug Costs;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Follow-Up Studies;Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Medication Adherence;numerical data;Pharmaceutical Services [economics] [organization & administration];Pharmacists [economics] [organization & administration];Prescription Drugs [administration & dosage];Primary Health Care [economics] [methods];Professional Role;Quality of Life;Surveys and Questionnaires;Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012003601/frame.html


Record #17 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012020113
AU: Broughton EI
AU: Gomez I
AU: Nunez O
AU: Wong Y
TI: Cost-effectiveness of improving pediatric hospital care in Nicaragua (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pan American Journal of Public Health
YR: 2011
VL: 30
NO: 5
PG: 453-460
KY: administration;Anti-Bacterial Agents [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost Savings;Decision Trees;Diarrhea [mortality] [therapy];Diarrhea, Infantile [mortality] [therapy];Drug Costs;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Hospital Mortality;Hospitals, Pediatric [economics] [organization & administration];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Nicaragua [epidemiology];numerical data;Pneumonia [drug therapy] [mortality] [therapy];Program Evaluation;Quality Improvement [economics];Retrospective Studies;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Humans[checkword];Infant[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012020113/frame.html


Record #18 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001823
AU: McGuire KJ
AU: Chacko AT
AU: Bernstein J
TI: Cost-effectiveness of teaching hospitals for the operative management of hip fractures (Provisional abstract)
SO: Orthopedics
YR: 2011
VL: 34
NO: 10
PG: e598-e601
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hip Fractures [economics] [mortality] [surgery];Hospitals, Teaching [economics];Medicare;numerical data;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Survival Rate;Treatment Outcome;United States [epidemiology];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001823/frame.html


Record #19 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000354
AU: Rubino AS
AU: Serraino GF
AU: Mariscalco G
AU: Marsico R
AU: Sala A
AU: Renzulli A
TI: Leukocyte depletion during extracorporeal circulation allows better organ protection but does not change hospital outcomes (Provisional abstract)
SO: Annals of Thoracic Surgery
YR: 2011
VL: 91
NO: 2
PG: 534-540
KY: Amidohydrolases [blood];Atrial Fibrillation [epidemiology];Comorbidity;Coronary Artery Bypass [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;dosage;Extracorporeal Circulation [methods];Furosemide [administration & dosage];Glomerular Filtration Rate;Heart Function Tests;Hospital Mortality;Hypertension [epidemiology];Incidence;Infusions, Intravenous;Intraoperative Complications [epidemiology];Italy;Kidney Function Tests;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Leukocyte Reduction Procedures [economics] [utilization];numerical data;Postoperative Complications [epidemiology];Respiratory Function Tests;Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000354/frame.html


Record #20 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001305
AU: Srichang N
AU: Jiamjarasrangsi W
AU: Aekplakorn W
AU: Supakankunti S
TI: Cost and effectiveness of screening methods for abnormal fasting plasma glucose among Thai adults participating in the annual health check-up at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of the Medical Association of Thailand
YR: 2011
VL: 94
NO: 7
PG: 833-841
KY: Asian Continental Ancestry Group [statistics & numerical data];Blood Glucose [analysis];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2 [diagnosis] [economics] [epidemiology];Glucose Tolerance Test;Hospitals, University;Hypertension [complications] [epidemiology];Mass Screening [economics] [methods];numerical data;Prevalence;Surveys and Questionnaires;Sensitivity and Specificity;Thailand [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001305/frame.html


Record #21 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001378
AU: Patel DA
AU: Gao X
AU: Stephens JM
AU: Forshag MS
AU: Tarallo M
TI: US hospital database analysis of invasive aspergillosis in the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease non-traditional host (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Medical Economics
YR: 2011
VL: 14
NO: 2
PG: 227-237
KY: Antifungal Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Case-Control Studies;Databases, Factual [statistics & numerical data];Health Status Indicators;Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis [economics] [epidemiology] [etiology];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive [complications] [economics] [epidemiology];Retrospective Studies;United States [epidemiology];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001378/frame.html


Record #22 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000722
AU: Votto JJ
AU: Scalise PJ
AU: Barton RW
AU: Vogel CA
TI: An analysis of clinical outcomes and costs of a long term acute care hospital (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Medical Economics
YR: 2011
VL: 14
NO: 2
PG: 141-146
KY: Acute Disease;Case-Control Studies;Connecticut;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay;Long-Term Care [economics];Mortality [trends];numerical data;Quality of Health Care;Retrospective Studies;Skilled Nursing Facilities [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Time Factors;Treatment Outcome;United States;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000722/frame.html


Record #23 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001985
AU: McGrath B
AU: Buckius MT
AU: Grim R
AU: Bell T
AU: Ahuja V
TI: Economics of appendicitis: cost trend analysis of laparoscopic versus open appendectomy from 1998 to 2008 (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Surgical Research
YR: 2011
VL: 171
NO: 2
PG: e161-e168
KY: Appendicitis [economics] [epidemiology] [surgery];Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Costs and Cost Analysis [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Laparoscopy [economics] [utilization];Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Postoperative Complications [economics] [epidemiology];Prevalence;United States [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001985/frame.html


Record #24 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012021918
AU: Babigumira JB
AU: Stergachis A
AU: Veenstra DL
AU: Gardner JS
AU: Ngonzi J
AU: Mukasa-Kivunike P
AU: Garrison LP
TI: Estimating the costs of induced abortion in Uganda: a model-based analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Public Health
YR: 2011
VL: 11:904
NO: 2
KY: Abortion, Induced [economics];Costs and Cost Analysis [methods];Health Expenditures [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Medical Audit [economics];Monte Carlo Method;numerical data;Prospective Studies;Uganda;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Pregnancy[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012021918/frame.html


Record #25 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001782
AU: Lubowitz JH
AU: Appleby D
TI: Cost-effectiveness analysis of the most common orthopaedic surgery procedures: knee arthroscopy and knee anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (Provisional abstract)
SO: Arthroscopy
YR: 2011
VL: 27
NO: 10
PG: 1317-1322
KY: Ambulatory Surgical Procedures [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Arthroscopy [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Cohort Studies;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Fees and Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Knee Injuries [economics] [surgery];Menisci, Tibial [injuries] [surgery];New Mexico;numerical data;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Retrospective Studies;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Child[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001782/frame.html


Record #26 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001471
AU: Joo EH
AU: Rha SY
AU: Ahn JB
AU: Kang HY
TI: Economic and patient-reported outcomes of outpatient home-based versus inpatient hospital-based chemotherapy for patients with colorectal cancer (Provisional abstract)
SO: Supportive Care in Cancer
YR: 2011
VL: 19
NO: 7
PG: 971-978
KY: Antineoplastic Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols [economics] [therapeutic use];Colorectal Neoplasms [drug therapy] [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Fluorouracil [economics] [therapeutic use];Focus Groups;Health Surveys;Home Care Services [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Inpatients [statistics & numerical data];Leucovorin [economics] [therapeutic use];Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Organoplatinum Compounds [economics] [therapeutic use];Outpatients [statistics & numerical data];Patient Satisfaction [statistics & numerical data];Surveys and Questionnaires;Regression Analysis;Republic of Korea;Self Report [economics];Statistics as Topic;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001471/frame.html


Record #27 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001457
AU: Frei CR
AU: Bell AM
AU: Traugott KA
AU: Jaso TC
AU: Daniels KR
AU: Mortensen EM
AU: Restrepo MI
AU: Oramasionwu CU
AU: Ruiz AD
AU: Mylchreest WR
AU: Sikirica V
AU: Raut MR
AU: Fisher A
AU: Schein JR
TI: A clinical pathway for community-acquired pneumonia: an observational cohort study (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Infectious Diseases
YR: 2011
VL: 11:188
NO: 2
KY: Anti-Bacterial Agents [administration & dosage];Cohort Studies;Community-Acquired Infections [drug therapy] [economics] [epidemiology];dosage [economics] [therapeutic use];Hospital Costs;Least-Squares Analysis;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Pneumonia, Bacterial [drug therapy] [economics] [epidemiology];Regression Analysis;Risk Factors;Texas [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001457/frame.html


Record #28 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001745
AU: Hinami K
AU: Feinglass J
AU: Ferranti DE
AU: Williams MV
TI: Potential role of comanagement in "rescue" of surgical patients (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Managed Care
YR: 2011
VL: 17
NO: 9
PG: e333-e339
KY: Confidence Intervals;General Surgery;Health Care Surveys;Health Status Indicators;Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Teaching;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Odds Ratio;Postoperative Complications [drug therapy];Quality Improvement;Retrospective Studies;Surgery Department, Hospital [statistics & numerical data];Treatment Outcome;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001745/frame.html


Record #29 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001821
AU: David D
AU: Samuel P
AU: David T
AU: Keshava SN
AU: Irodi A
AU: Peter JV
TI: An open-labelled randomized controlled trial comparing costs and clinical outcomes of open endotracheal suctioning with closed endotracheal suctioning in mechanically ventilated medical intensive care patients (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Critical Care
YR: 2011
VL: 26
NO: 5
PG: 482-488
KY: Costs and Cost Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Hospital Mortality;Hospitals, Teaching [economics] [statistics & numerical data];India [epidemiology];Critical Care [economics] [methods];Intensive Care Units [statistics & numerical data];Intubation, Intratracheal [adverse effects] [instrumentation];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pneumonia, Ventilator-Associated [etiology];Prospective Studies;Respiration, Artificial [adverse effects] [economics] [methods];Risk Factors;Suction [economics] [methods];Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001821/frame.html


Record #30 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012012669
AU: Boese CK
AU: Gallo TJ
AU: Weis M
AU: Baker R
AU: Plantikow CJ
AU: Cooley B
TI: Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a blood salvage system in primary total knee arthroplasty: a retrospective match-controlled chart review (Provisional abstract)
SO: Iowa Orthopaedic Journal
YR: 2011
VL: 31
NO: 2
PG: 78-82
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee [economics] [methods] [standards];Blood Loss, Surgical [prevention & control];Blood Transfusion [economics] [statistics & numerical data];control [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Matched-Pair Analysis;Medical Audit;numerical data;Operative Blood Salvage [economics] [standards] [statistics & numerical data];Retrospective Studies;Risk Factors;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012012669/frame.html


Record #31 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000929
AU: Refai M
AU: Brunelli A
AU: Salati M
AU: Pompili C
AU: Xiume F
AU: Sabbatini A
TI: Efficacy of anterior fissureless technique for right upper lobectomies: a case-matched analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery
YR: 2011
VL: 39
NO: 6
PG: 1043-1046
KY: Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung [economics] [surgery];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Intraoperative Period;Lung Neoplasms [economics] [surgery];numerical data;Pleural Effusion [etiology];Pneumonectomy [adverse effects] [economics] [methods];Pneumothorax [etiology];Pulmonary Artery [surgery];Respiratory Mechanics;Retrospective Studies;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000929/frame.html


Record #32 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001603
AU: Schneider EB
AU: Haider AH
AU: Lidor AO
AU: Efron JE
AU: Villegas CV
AU: Stevens KA
AU: Hirani SA
AU: Haut ER
AU: Efron DT
TI: Global surgical package reimbursement and the acute care surgeon: a threat to optimal care (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Trauma
YR: 2011
VL: 70
NO: 3
PG: 583-589
KY: Age Factors;Colectomy [economics] [methods] [mortality];Comorbidity;Emergency Treatment [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Fees and Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Mortality;Insurance, Health [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Regression Analysis;Sex Factors;Statistics, Nonparametric;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001603/frame.html


Record #33 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001164
AU: Shashinder S
AU: Morton RP
AU: Ahmad Z
TI: Outcome and relative cost of transoral removal of submandibular calculi (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Laryngology and Otology
YR: 2011
VL: 125
NO: 4
PG: 386-389
KY: Ambulatory Surgical Procedures [economics] [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Intraoperative Period;Length of Stay;New Zealand;numerical data;Otorhinolaryngologic Surgical Procedures [economics];Retrospective Studies;Salivary Gland Calculi [economics] [pathology] [surgery];Submandibular Gland Diseases [economics] [pathology] [surgery];Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001164/frame.html


Record #34 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001987
AU: El-Sayed MM
AU: Mohamed SA
AU: Jones MH
TI: Cost-effectiveness of ultrasound use by on-call registrars in an acute gynaecology setting (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
YR: 2011
VL: 31
NO: 8
PG: 743-745
KY: Acute Disease;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Genital Diseases, Female [economics] [ultrasonography];Gynecology [economics];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Night Care [economics];numerical data;Patient Admission [economics];Prospective Studies;Ultrasonography [economics];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Pregnancy[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001987/frame.html


Record #35 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001139
AU: Masa JF
AU: Corral J
AU: Pereira R
AU: Duran-Cantolla J
AU: Cabello M
AU: Hernandez-Blasco L
AU: Monasterio C
AU: Alonso A
AU: Chiner E
AU: Rubio M
AU: Garcia-Ledesma E
AU: Cacelo L
AU: Carpizo R
AU: Sacristan L
AU: Salord N
AU: Carrera M
AU: Sancho-Chust JN
AU: Embid C
AU: Vazquez-Polo F-J
AU: Negrin MA
AU: Montserrat JM
TI: Effectiveness of home respiratory polygraphy for the diagnosis of sleep apnoea and hypopnoea syndrome (Provisional abstract)
SO: Thorax
YR: 2011
VL: 66
NO: 7
PG: 567-573
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Epidemiologic Methods;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [economics];numerical data;Polysomnography [economics] [methods];Sleep Apnea Syndromes [diagnosis] [economics];Telemetry [economics] [methods];Transportation [economics] [methods];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001139/frame.html


Record #36 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011001005
AU: Franzini L
AU: Sail KR
AU: Thomas EJ
AU: Wueste L
TI: Costs and cost-effectiveness of a telemedicine intensive care unit program in 6 intensive care units in a large health care system (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Critical Care
YR: 2011
VL: 26
NO: 3
PG: 329.e1-329.e6
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Intensive Care Units [economics];numerical data;Program Evaluation;Severity of Illness Index;Telemedicine [economics];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011001005/frame.html


Record #37 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22012000167
AU: Adams JM
AU: Bilaniuk JW
AU: Difazio LT
AU: Siegel BK
AU: Durling-Grover R
AU: McCarthy D
AU: Grob P
AU: Bobbin MD
AU: Skerker RS
AU: Nemeth ZH
TI: Standard computed tomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis is sensitive and cost-effective for the detection of fractures of the shoulder girdle (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Surgeon
YR: 2011
VL: 77
NO: 9
PG: 1183-1187
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Diagnosis, Differential;Follow-Up Studies;Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];New Jersey;numerical data;Pelvis [radiography];Radiography, Abdominal [economics] [methods];Radiography, Thoracic [economics] [methods];Retrospective Studies;Sensitivity and Specificity;Shoulder Fractures [radiography];Tomography, X-Ray Computed [economics];Trauma Severity Indices;Wounds, Nonpenetrating [radiography];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22012000167/frame.html


Record #38 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011002004
AU: Piednoir E
AU: Thibon P
AU: Borderan GC
AU: Godde F
AU: Borgey F
AU: Coutour X
AU: Parienti JJ
TI: Long-term clinical and economic benefits associated with the management of a nosocomial outbreak resulting from extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae (Provisional abstract)
SO: Critical Care Medicine
YR: 2011
VL: 39
NO: 12
PG: 2672-2677
KY: Anti-Bacterial Agents [therapeutic use];beta-Lactam Resistance;control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross Infection [drug therapy] [economics] [prevention & control];Disease Outbreaks [economics] [prevention & control];Hospital Costs;Intensive Care Units [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Klebsiella Infections [drug therapy] [economics] [prevention & control];Klebsiella pneumoniae [drug effects];numerical data;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011002004/frame.html


Record #39 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000826
AU: Cho S
AU: Do YW
AU: Lee EB
TI: Comparison of costs for video-assisted thoracic surgery lobectomy and open lobectomy for non-small cell lung cancer (Provisional abstract)
SO: Surgical Endoscopy and Other Interventional Techniques
YR: 2011
VL: 25
NO: 4
PG: 1054-1061
KY: Analgesia, Patient-Controlled [economics];Anesthesia, General [economics];Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung [economics] [surgery];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Expenditures [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Learning Curve;Lung Neoplasms [economics] [surgery];National Health Programs [economics];numerical data;Pneumonectomy [economics] [education] [methods];Postoperative Complications [economics] [epidemiology];Practice (Psychology);Preoperative Care [economics];Republic of Korea [epidemiology];Retrospective Studies;Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted [economics] [education];Thoracotomy [economics] [education] [methods];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000826/frame.html


Record #40 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000942
AU: Fitzgerald P
AU: Goodacre SW
AU: Cross E
AU: Dixon S
TI: Cost-effectiveness of point-of-care biomarker assessment for suspected myocardial infarction: the Randomized Assessment of Treatment using Panel Assay of Cardiac markers (RATPAC) trial (Structured abstract)
SO: Academic Emergency Medicine
YR: 2011
VL: 18
NO: 5
PG: 488-495
KY: Biomarkers [blood];Chest Pain [blood] [economics] [etiology];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Creatine Kinase, MB Form [blood];Emergency Service, Hospital [economics];England;Health Expenditures;Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Myocardial Infarction [blood] [complications] [economics];Myoglobin [blood];numerical data;Point-of-Care Systems [economics];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Surveys and Questionnaires;Troponin [blood];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000942/frame.html


Record #41 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001445
AU: Lissovoy GD
AU: Fraeman K
AU: Teerlink JR
AU: Mullahy J
AU: Salon J
AU: Sterz R
AU: Durtschi A
AU: Padley RJ
TI: Hospital costs for treatment of acute heart failure: economic analysis of the REVIVE II study (Provisional abstract)
SO: European Journal of Health Economics
YR: 2010
VL: 11
NO: 2
PG: 185-193
KY: Australia [epidemiology];Cardiotonic Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Heart Failure [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hydrazones [economics] [therapeutic use];Israel [epidemiology];Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pyridazines [economics] [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Survival Analysis;Treatment Outcome;United States [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001445/frame.html


Record #42 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001745
AU: Lissovoy G
AU: Fraeman K
AU: Teerlink JR
AU: Mullahy J
AU: Salon J
AU: Sterz R
AU: Durtschi A
AU: Padley RJ
TI: Hospital costs for treatment of acute heart failure: economic analysis of the REVIVE II study (Provisional abstract)
SO: European Journal of Health Economics
YR: 2010
VL: 11
NO: 2
PG: 185-93
KY: Australia [epidemiology];Cardiotonic Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Heart Failure [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hydrazones [economics] [therapeutic use];Israel [epidemiology];Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pyridazines [economics] [therapeutic use];Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Survival Analysis;Treatment Outcome;United States [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001745/frame.html


Record #43 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001571
AU: Datta SK
AU: Oddone EZ
AU: Olsen MK
AU: Orr M
AU: McCant F
AU: Gentry P
AU: Bosworth HB
TI: Economic analysis of a tailored behavioral intervention to improve blood pressure control for primary care patients (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Heart Journal
YR: 2010
VL: 160
NO: 2
PG: 257-263
KY: Behavior Therapy [economics];control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost Savings;Decision Support Techniques;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Health Services [utilization];Hospitalization [economics];Hospitals, Veterans [economics];Hypertension [economics] [prevention & control];North Carolina;numerical data;Nursing Staff, Hospital [economics];Primary Health Care [economics];Telemedicine [economics] [methods];Telephone;Veterans;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001571/frame.html


Record #44 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001882
AU: Stallworth JR
AU: Jerrell JM
AU: Tripathi A
TI: Cost-effectiveness of hydroxyurea in reducing the frequency of pain episodes and hospitalization in pediatric sickle cell disease (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Hematology
YR: 2010
VL: 85
NO: 10
PG: 795-797
KY: Acute Chest Syndrome [economics] [epidemiology] [etiology] [prevention & control];Anemia, Sickle Cell [complications] [drug therapy] [economics] [epidemiology];Cohort Studies;control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Costs and Cost Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs;Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hydroxyurea [economics] [therapeutic use];Medicaid [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Outpatient Clinics, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Pain [economics] [epidemiology] [etiology] [prevention & control];Poverty;South Carolina [epidemiology];United States;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001882/frame.html


Record #45 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001153
AU: Atreja A
AU: Fu AZ
AU: Sanaka MR
AU: Vargo JJ
TI: Non-invasive testing for Helicobacter pylori in patients hospitalized with peptic ulcer hemorrhage: a cost-effectiveness analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: Digestive Diseases and Sciences
YR: 2010
VL: 55
NO: 5
PG: 1356-1363
KY: Breath Tests;Carbon Isotopes [diagnostic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Decision Trees;Gastroscopy [economics];Helicobacter Infections [diagnosis] [drug therapy] [economics];Helicobacter pylori;Hospital Costs;Monte Carlo Method;numerical data;Patient Admission [statistics & numerical data];Peptic Ulcer Hemorrhage [drug therapy] [economics] [microbiology];Proton Pump Inhibitors [economics] [therapeutic use];Sensitivity and Specificity;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001153/frame.html


Record #46 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010002079
AU: Jackson D
AU: Earnshaw SR
AU: Farkouh R
AU: Schwamm L
TI: Cost-effectiveness of CT perfusion for selecting patients for intravenous thrombolysis: a US hospital perspective (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Neuroradiology
YR: 2010
VL: 31
NO: 9
PG: 1669-1674
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Fibrinolytic Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Incidence;numerical data;Patient Selection;Stroke [economics] [mortality] [therapy];Survival Analysis;Survival Rate;Thrombolytic Therapy [economics];Tomography, X-Ray Computed [economics];United States [epidemiology];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010002079/frame.html


Record #47 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001365
AU: Sanguantrakul U
AU: Jiamjarasrangsi W
AU: Vimolket T
TI: Efficiency and cost-effectiveness of dyslipidemia screening methods among workers in Bangkok (Provisional abstract)
SO: Southeast Asian Journal of Tropical Medicine and Public Health
YR: 2010
VL: 41
NO: 1
PG: 215-223
KY: Body Mass Index;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross-Sectional Studies;Dyslipidemias [blood] [diagnosis] [economics];Health Behavior;Health Status;Hospitals, University [statistics & numerical data];Lipids [blood];Mass Screening [economics] [methods];numerical data;Personnel, Hospital [statistics & numerical data];Sensitivity and Specificity;Thailand [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001365/frame.html


Record #48 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001051
AU: Hu S
AU: Zheng Z
AU: Yuan X
AU: Wang W
AU: Song Y
AU: Sun H
AU: Xu J
TI: Increasing long-term major vascular events and resource consumption in patients receiving off-pump coronary artery bypass: a single-center prospective observational study (Provisional abstract)
SO: Circulation
YR: 2010
VL: 121
NO: 16
PG: 1800-1808
KY: Atrial Fibrillation [mortality];Blood Transfusion [statistics & numerical data];Coronary Artery Bypass, Off-Pump [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Coronary Artery Disease [economics] [mortality] [surgery];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Health Expenditures [statistics & numerical data];Health Services [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Mortality;numerical data;Postoperative Complications [mortality];Prospective Studies;Respiration, Artificial [statistics & numerical data];Retrospective Studies;Risk Factors;Stroke [mortality];Survival Rate;Treatment Outcome;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001051/frame.html


Record #49 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000508
AU: Cicvaric T
AU: Bencevic-Striehl H
AU: Juretic I
AU: Marinovic M
AU: Grzalja N
AU: Ostric M
TI: Hip fractures in elderly: ten years analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: Collegium Antropologicum
YR: 2010
VL: 34
NO: Supplement 2
PG: 199-204
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip [economics] [mortality];Croatia [epidemiology];Femoral Neck Fractures [economics] [mortality] [surgery];Hip Fractures [economics] [mortality] [surgery];Hospital Costs;Incidence;Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Reoperation [economics] [mortality];Retrospective Studies;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000508/frame.html


Record #50 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001391
AU: MacKenzie EJ
AU: Weir S
AU: Rivara FP
AU: Jurkovich GJ
AU: Nathens AB
AU: Wang W
AU: Scharfstein DO
AU: Salkever DS
TI: The value of trauma center care (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Trauma
YR: 2010
VL: 69
NO: 1
PG: 1-10
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Medicaid [economics];Medicare [economics];numerical data;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Trauma Centers [economics];United States;Wounds and Injuries [economics];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001391/frame.html


Record #51 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000702
AU: Bakhshai J
AU: Bleu-Laine R
AU: Jung M
AU: Lim J
AU: Reyes C
AU: Sun L
AU: Rochester C
AU: Shaya FT
TI: The cost effectiveness and budget impact of natalizumab for formulary inclusion (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Medical Economics
YR: 2010
VL: 13
NO: 1
PG: 63-69
KY: Antibodies, Monoclonal [economics] [therapeutic use];Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized;Antirheumatic Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Budgets [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Crohn Disease [drug therapy] [economics];Databases, Factual [statistics & numerical data];Decision Making;Economics, Pharmaceutical [statistics & numerical data];Formularies, Hospital;Models, Economic;Multiple Sclerosis [drug therapy] [economics];numerical data;Recurrence;United States;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000702/frame.html


Record #52 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001433
AU: Bergstrom J
AU: Andersson G
AU: Ljotsson B
AU: Ruck C
AU: Andreewitch S
AU: Karlsson A
AU: Carlbring P
AU: Andersson E
AU: Lindefors N
TI: Internet-versus group-administered cognitive behaviour therapy for panic disorder in a psychiatric setting: a randomised trial (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Psychiatry
YR: 2010
VL: 10:54
NO: 2
KY: Agoraphobia [diagnosis] [economics] [therapy];Cognitive Therapy [economics] [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders;Double-Blind Method;Follow-Up Studies;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Internet [economics];numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Panic Disorder [diagnosis] [economics] [therapy];Psychiatric Department, Hospital;Psychiatric Status Rating Scales [statistics & numerical data];Psychotherapy, Group [economics] [methods];Self Care [methods];Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001433/frame.html


Record #53 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22011000344
AU: Brunelli A
AU: Salati M
AU: Refai M
AU: Nunzio L
AU: Xiume F
AU: Sabbatini A
TI: Evaluation of a new chest tube removal protocol using digital air leak monitoring after lobectomy: a prospective randomised trial (Provisional abstract)
SO: European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery
YR: 2010
VL: 37
NO: 1
PG: 56-60
KY: Chest Tubes;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Device Removal [methods];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Lung Neoplasms [surgery];Monitoring, Physiologic [methods];numerical data;Pneumonectomy [adverse effects] [economics];Pneumothorax [diagnosis] [economics] [etiology];Postoperative Care [economics] [methods];Postoperative Period;Prospective Studies;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22011000344/frame.html


Record #54 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000998
AU: Rudd KM
AU: Dier JG
TI: Comparison of two different models of anticoagulation management services with usual medical care (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pharmacotherapy
YR: 2010
VL: 30
NO: 4
PG: 330-338
KY: administration;Ambulatory Care Facilities [organization & administration];Case Management [organization & administration];Costs and Cost Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [organization & administration];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];International Normalized Ratio [methods];Medical Records;New York;numerical data;Pharmacists [organization & administration];Physicians [organization & administration];Prospective Studies;Warfarin [adverse effects] [therapeutic use];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000998/frame.html


Record #55 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010002011
AU: Irvine L
AU: Conroy SP
AU: Sach T
AU: Gladman JR
AU: Harwood RH
AU: Kendrick D
AU: Coupland C
AU: Drummond A
AU: Barton G
AU: Masud T
TI: Cost-effectiveness of a day hospital falls prevention programme for screened community-dwelling older people at high risk of falls (Structured abstract)
SO: Age and Ageing
YR: 2010
VL: 39
NO: 6
PG: 710-716
KY: Accidental Falls [prevention & control];administration [statistics & numerical data] [statistics & numerical data] [statistics & numerical data] [statistics & numerical data];control [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Day Care, Medical [economics] [organization & administration];Geriatric Assessment [methods];Health Services [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Housing for the Elderly [statistics & numerical data];Mass Screening [methods];numerical data [utilization];Occupational Therapy [economics] [organization & administration];Patient Care Team [economics] [organization & administration];Physical Therapy Modalities [economics] [organization & administration];Program Evaluation;Residence Characteristics [statistics & numerical data];Risk Factors;Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010002011/frame.html


Record #56 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000636
AU: Chung KC
AU: Oda T
AU: Saddawi-Konefka D
AU: Shauver MJ
TI: An economic analysis of hand transplantation in the United States (Structured abstract)
SO: Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
YR: 2010
VL: 125
NO: 2
PG: 589-598
KY: Ambulatory Care Facilities [economics];Amputation, Traumatic [economics] [mortality] [surgery];Artificial Limbs [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Data Collection;Drug Costs;Forearm [surgery];Graft Rejection [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Hand Transplantation;Hospital Costs;Immunosuppressive Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Medicare [economics];Organ Transplantation [economics] [mortality];Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care) [economics];Postoperative Complications [economics] [mortality];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;United States [epidemiology];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000636/frame.html


Record #57 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000314
AU: Lorgelly PK
AU: Briggs AH
AU: Wedel H
AU: Dunselman P
AU: Hjalmarson A
AU: Kjekshus J
AU: Waagstein F
AU: Wikstrand J
AU: Janosi A
AU: Veldhuisen DJ
AU: Barrios V
AU: Fonseca C
AU: McMurray JJ
TI: An economic evaluation of rosuvastatin treatment in systolic heart failure: evidence from the CORONA trial (Structured abstract)
SO: European Journal of Heart Failure
YR: 2010
VL: 12
NO: 1
PG: 66-74
KY: Cardiopulmonary Bypass [utilization];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Costs and Cost Analysis;Fluorobenzenes [economics] [therapeutic use];Heart Failure [drug therapy] [economics];Heart Transplantation [utilization];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Mortality;Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors [economics] [therapeutic use];numerical data;Prospective Studies;Pyrimidines [economics] [therapeutic use];Sulfonamides [economics] [therapeutic use];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000314/frame.html


Record #58 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000979
AU: Soeteman DI
AU: Verheul R
AU: Delimon J
AU: Meerman AM
AU: Eijnden E
AU: Rossum BV
AU: Ziegler U
AU: Thunnissen M
AU: Busschbach JJ
AU: Kim JJ
TI: Cost-effectiveness of psychotherapy for cluster B personality disorders (Structured abstract)
SO: British Journal of Psychiatry
YR: 2010
VL: 196
NO: 5
PG: 396-403
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost of Illness;Day Care, Medical [economics];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Netherlands;numerical data;Outpatient Clinics, Hospital [economics];Personality Disorders [economics] [therapy];Psychotherapy [economics] [methods];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000979/frame.html


Record #59 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001967
AU: Lloyd JM
AU: Martin R
AU: Rajagopolan S
AU: Zieneh N
AU: Hartley R
TI: An innovative and cost-effective way of managing ankle fractures prior to surgery: home therapy (Structured abstract)
SO: Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England
YR: 2010
VL: 92
NO: 7
PG: 615-618
KY: administration;Ankle Injuries [economics] [rehabilitation] [surgery];Cost-Benefit Analysis;England;Fracture Fixation [economics];Fractures, Bone [economics] [rehabilitation] [surgery];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [economics] [organization & administration];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Patient Education as Topic [methods];Patient Satisfaction;Physical Therapy Modalities [economics];Preoperative Care [economics] [methods];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001967/frame.html


Record #60 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000938
AU: Chen YH
AU: Ho YL
AU: Huang HC
AU: Wu HW
AU: Lee CY
AU: Hsu TP
AU: Cheng CL
AU: Chen MF
TI: Assessment of the clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of the management of systolic heart failure in Chinese patients using a home-based intervention (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of International Medical Research
YR: 2010
VL: 38
NO: 1
PG: 242-252
KY: Asian Continental Ancestry Group;Case-Control Studies;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Heart Failure, Systolic [economics] [nursing];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [economics];Length of Stay;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [economics];Patient Readmission;Prospective Studies;Survival Rate;Telemedicine;Telephone;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000938/frame.html


Record #61 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010001401
AU: Muangman P
AU: Pundee C
AU: Opasanon S
AU: Muangman S
TI: A prospective, randomized trial of silver containing hydrofiber dressing versus 1% silver sulfadiazine for the treatment of partial thickness burns (Structured abstract)
SO: International Wound Journal
YR: 2010
VL: 7
NO: 4
PG: 271-276
KY: Ambulatory Care [economics];Anti-Infective Agents, Local [economics] [pharmacology] [therapeutic use];Body Surface Area;Burns [complications] [therapy];Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium [economics] [pharmacology] [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Kaplan-Meier Estimate;numerical data;Pain [etiology];Prospective Studies;Silver Sulfadiazine [economics] [pharmacology] [therapeutic use];Skin Care [adverse effects] [economics] [methods];Thailand;Time Factors;Travel [economics];Treatment Outcome;Wound Healing [drug effects];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010001401/frame.html


Record #62 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009101131
AU: Gomez J
AU: Garcia-Vazquez E
AU: Antonio Puertas J
AU: Rodenas J
AU: Herrero J A
AU: Albaladejo C
AU: Banos V
AU: Canteras M
AU: Alcaraz M
TI: Clinical and economic analysis of an internal medicine-infectious disease department at a university general hospital (2005-2006) (Provisional abstract)
SO: Enfermedades Infecciosas y Microbiologia Clinica
YR: 2009
VL: 27
NO: 2
PG: 70-74
KY: administration;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Diagnosis-Related Groups [economics];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Departments [economics] [organization & administration];Hospital Mortality;Hospitals, General [economics] [organization & administration];Hospitals, University [economics] [organization & administration];Infectious Disease Medicine [economics] [organization & administration];Internal Medicine [economics] [organization & administration];numerical data;Respiratory Tract Infections [economics] [epidemiology] [therapy];Retrospective Studies;Sepsis [economics] [epidemiology] [therapy];Skin Diseases, Infectious [economics] [epidemiology] [therapy];Spain [epidemiology];Urinary Tract Infections [economics] [epidemiology] [therapy];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009101131/frame.html


Record #63 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009102311
AU: Losina E
AU: Walensky RP
AU: Kessler CL
AU: Emrani PS
AU: Reichmann WM
AU: Wright EA
AU: Holt HL
AU: Solomon DH
AU: Yelin E
AU: Paltiel AD
AU: Katz JN
TI: Cost-effectiveness of total knee arthroplasty in the United States: parient risk and hospital volume (Provisional abstract)
SO: Archives of Internal Medicine
YR: 2009
VL: 169
NO: 12
PG: 1113-1121
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee [economics] [utilization];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Bed Capacity [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Osteoarthritis, Knee [economics] [surgery];Risk Factors;United States;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009102311/frame.html


Record #64 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009103358
AU: Huang CY
AU: Chen SS
AU: Chen LK
TI: Comparison of two different running models for the shock wave lithotripsy machine in Taipei City Hospital: self-support versus outsourcing cooperation (Provisional abstract)
SO: Urological Research
YR: 2009
VL: 37
NO: 5
PG: 247-251
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Urban [economics];Lithotripsy [economics];Models, Economic;numerical data;Outsourced Services [statistics & numerical data];Retrospective Studies;Taiwan;Urolithiasis [economics] [therapy];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009103358/frame.html


Record #65 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009103815
AU: Parker SG
AU: Oliver P
AU: Pennington M
AU: Bond J
AU: Jagger C
AU: Enderby PM
AU: Curless R
AU: Chater T
AU: Vanoli A
AU: Fryer K
AU: Cooper C
AU: Julious S
AU: Donaldson C
AU: Dyer C
AU: Wynn T
AU: John A
AU: Ross D
TI: Rehabilitation of older patients: day hospital compared with rehabilitation at home - a randomised controlled trial (Provisional abstract)
SO: Health Technology Assessment
YR: 2009
VL: 13
NO: 39
PG: 1-168
KY: administration [psychology];Anxiety;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Day Care, Medical [utilization];Depression;England;Home Care Services [utilization];Hospitals, Public;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [statistics & numerical data];Quality of Life;Surveys and Questionnaires;Rehabilitation [organization & administration];State Medicine;Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009103815/frame.html


Record #66 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009100755
AU: Yong C
AU: Fisher D A
AU: Sklar G E
AU: Li S C
TI: A cost analysis of Outpatient Parenteral Antibiotic Therapy (OPAT): an Asian perspective (Provisional abstract)
SO: International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents
YR: 2009
VL: 33
NO: 1
PG: 46-51
KY: Ambulatory Care [economics] [methods];Anti-Bacterial Agents [administration & dosage];Bacterial Infections [drug therapy];Costs and Cost Analysis;dosage [economics];Home Infusion Therapy [economics];Hospital Charges;Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, University;Infusions, Parenteral [economics];numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Singapore;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009100755/frame.html


Record #67 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009102716
AU: Kan JH
AU: Estrada C
AU: Hasan U
AU: Bracikowski A
AU: Shyr Y
AU: Shakhtour B
AU: Hernanz-Schulman M
TI: Management of occult fractures in the skeletally immature patient: cost analysis of implementing a limited trauma magnetic resonance imaging protocol (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pediatric Emergency Care
YR: 2009
VL: 25
NO: 4
PG: 226-230
KY: Bandages [economics];Braces [economics];Case Management;Casts, Surgical [economics];Cost of Illness;Costs and Cost Analysis;Diagnostic Errors;Direct Service Costs;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Follow-Up Studies;Fractures, Closed [diagnosis] [economics] [radiography] [therapy];Health Care Costs;Magnetic Resonance Imaging [economics];numerical data;Practice Guidelines as Topic;Retrospective Studies;Splints [economics];Unnecessary Procedures [economics];Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Child, Preschool[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Infant[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009102716/frame.html


Record #68 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009100701
AU: Sporn E
AU: Petroski G F
AU: Mancini G J
AU: Astudillo J A
AU: Miedema B W
AU: Thaler K
TI: Laparoscopic appendectomy: is it worth the cost? Trend analysis in the US from 2000 to 2005 (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of the American College of Surgeons
YR: 2009
VL: 208
NO: 2
PG: 179-185
KY: Acute Disease;Appendectomy [adverse effects] [economics] [methods];Appendicitis [economics] [ethnology] [surgery];Confounding Factors (Epidemiology);Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Laparoscopy [adverse effects] [economics] [trends];Length of Stay;numerical data;Odds Ratio;Retrospective Studies;Treatment Outcome;United States;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009100701/frame.html


Record #69 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000453
AU: Schuurman JP
AU: Schoonhoven L
AU: Defloor T
AU: Engelshoven I
AU: Ramshorst B
AU: Buskens E
TI: Economic evaluation of pressure ulcer care: a cost minimization analysis of preventive strategies (Structured abstract)
SO: Nursing Economic$
YR: 2009
VL: 27
NO: 6
PG: 390-400
KY: control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost of Illness;Direct Service Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Teaching;Incidence;Length of Stay [economics];Netherlands [epidemiology];numerical data;Nursing Administration Research;Nursing Staff, Hospital [economics];Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Pressure Ulcer [economics] [epidemiology] [prevention & control];Primary Prevention [economics] [methods];Prospective Studies;Skin Care [economics] [methods] [nursing];Workload [economics];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000453/frame.html


Record #70 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009101780
AU: Chan A L
AU: Hsieh H J
AU: Lin S J
TI: Pharmacist intervention in activated protein C therapy for severe sepsis: influence on health and economic outcomes (Provisional abstract)
SO: International Journal of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics
YR: 2009
VL: 47
NO: 4
PG: 229-235
KY: Analysis of Variance;Anti-Infective Agents [administration & dosage];dosage [therapeutic use] [economics] [therapeutic use] [economics] [therapeutic use];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Mortality;Infusions, Intravenous;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pharmacists [economics];Professional Role;Protein C [administration & dosage];Recombinant Proteins [administration & dosage];Reimbursement Mechanisms;Retrospective Studies;Sepsis [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Severity of Illness Index;Taiwan [epidemiology];Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009101780/frame.html


Record #71 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009103463
AU: Suri MF
AU: Vazquez G
AU: Ezzeddine MA
AU: Qureshi AI
TI: A multicenter comparison of outcomes associated with intravenous nitroprusside and nicardipine treatment among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (Provisional abstract)
SO: Neurocritical Care
YR: 2009
VL: 11
NO: 1
PG: 50-55
KY: Antihypertensive Agents [administration & dosage];Cerebral Hemorrhage [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Databases, Factual;dosage [economics] [economics] [economics];Drug Costs;Hospital Costs;Hospital Mortality;Infusions, Intravenous;Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Multivariate Analysis;Nicardipine [administration & dosage];Nitroprusside [administration & dosage];numerical data;Risk Factors;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009103463/frame.html


Record #72 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009103793
AU: Gosselin RA
AU: Heitto M
AU: Zirkle L
TI: Cost-effectiveness of replacing skeletal traction by interlocked intramedullary nailing for femoral shaft fractures in a provincial trauma hospital in Cambodia (Provisional abstract)
SO: International Orthopaedics
YR: 2009
VL: 33
NO: 5
PG: 1445-1448
KY: Bone Nails [economics];Cambodia;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Femoral Fractures [economics] [therapy];Fracture Fixation, Intramedullary [economics] [instrumentation] [methods];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Traction [economics];Treatment Outcome;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword];Young Adult[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009103793/frame.html


Record #73 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22010000505
AU: Lage MJ
AU: Gross GN
AU: Brewster C
AU: Spalitto A
TI: Outcomes and costs of patients with persistent asthma treated with beclomethasone dipropionate hydrofluoroalkane or fluticasone propionate (Provisional abstract)
SO: Advances in Therapy
YR: 2009
VL: 26
NO: 8
PG: 762-775
KY: administration;Androstadienes [economics];Anti-Asthmatic Agents [economics];Anti-Inflammatory Agents [economics];Asthma [drug therapy] [economics];Beclomethasone [economics];Cost of Illness;Drug Costs [statistics & numerical data];Drug Therapy, Combination;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Insurance Claim Reporting [economics];Medication Adherence [statistics & numerical data];Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [organization & administration];Patient Selection;Regression Analysis;Retrospective Studies;United States;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22010000505/frame.html


Record #74 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009103525
AU: Faries DE
AU: Ascher-Svanum H
AU: Nyhuis AW
AU: Kinon BJ
TI: Clinical and economic ramifications of switching antipsychotics in the treatment of schizophrenia (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Psychiatry
YR: 2009
VL: 9:54
NO: 2
KY: Ambulatory Care [economics];Antipsychotic Agents [administration & dosage];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Crisis Intervention [economics] [methods];Cross-Over Studies;dosage [economics] [therapeutic use];Drug Administration Schedule;Drug Costs [statistics & numerical data];Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [utilization];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Schizophrenia [drug therapy] [economics];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009103525/frame.html


Record #75 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009100207
AU: Shinall M C
AU: Koehler E
AU: Shyr Y
AU: Lovvorn H N
TI: Comparing cost and complications of primary and staged surgical repair of neonatally diagnosed Hirschsprung's disease (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Pediatric Surgery
YR: 2008
VL: 43
NO: 12
PG: 2220-2225
KY: Colostomy [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Direct Service Costs [statistics & numerical data];Follow-Up Studies;Hirschsprung Disease [economics] [surgery];Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Pediatric [economics];Hospitals, University [economics];Infant, Newborn;Laparoscopy [economics];Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Postoperative Complications [epidemiology];Retrospective Studies;Tennessee [epidemiology];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009100207/frame.html


Record #76 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008102127
AU: Onukwugha E
AU: Mullins C D
AU: DeLisle S
TI: Using cost-effectiveness analysis to sharpen formulary decision-making: the example of tiotropium at the veterans affairs health care system (Provisional abstract)
SO: Value in Health
YR: 2008
VL: 11
NO: 5
PG: 980-988
KY: Bronchodilator Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Confidence Intervals;Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics];Decision Making;Formularies, Hospital;Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Veterans [economics];Ipratropium [economics] [therapeutic use];Maryland;Medical Records Systems, Computerized;Models, Economic;numerical data;Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive [drug therapy] [economics];Respiratory Function Tests [economics];Retrospective Studies;Scopolamine Derivatives [economics] [therapeutic use];Sensitivity and Specificity;United States;United States Department of Veterans Affairs;Veterans;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008102127/frame.html


Record #77 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101323
AU: Secoli S R
AU: Padilha K G
AU: Litvoc J
TI: Cost-effectiveness analysis of the analgesic therapy of postoperative pain (Provisional abstract)
SO: Revista Latino-Americana de Enfermagem
YR: 2008
VL: 16
NO: 1
PG: 42-46
KY: Analgesics [economics] [therapeutic use];Brazil;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Expenditures;Hemorrhoids [surgery];Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pain, Postoperative [drug therapy] [economics];Retrospective Studies;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101323/frame.html


Record #78 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008100746
AU: Zilberberg M D
AU: Stern L S
AU: Wiederkehr D P
AU: Doyle J J
AU: Shorr A F
TI: Anemia, transfusions and hospital outcomes among critically ill patients on prolonged acute mechanical ventilation: a retrospective cohort study (Provisional abstract)
SO: Critical Care
YR: 2008
VL: 12
NO: 2
PG: art R60
KY: Anemia [etiology] [therapy];Blood Transfusion [statistics & numerical data];Chi-Square Distribution;Comorbidity;Critical Illness [therapy];Intensive Care Units [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Regression Analysis;Respiration, Artificial [adverse effects];Retrospective Studies;Statistics, Nonparametric;Treatment Outcome;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008100746/frame.html


Record #79 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008000777
AU: Colombo G L
AU: Caruggi M
AU: Ottolini C
AU: Maggioni A P
TI: Candesartan in heart failure: assessment of reduction in mortality and morbidity (CHARM) and resource utilization and costs in Italy (Provisional abstract)
SO: Vascular Health and Risk Management
YR: 2008
VL: 4
NO: 1
PG: 223-234
KY: Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor Blockers [economics] [therapeutic use];Benzimidazoles [economics] [therapeutic use];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Drug Costs;Heart Failure [drug therapy] [economics] [mortality];Hospital Costs;Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Italy [epidemiology];numerical data;Risk Factors;Survival Analysis;Tetrazoles [economics] [therapeutic use];Treatment Outcome;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008000777/frame.html


Record #80 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008000553
AU: Salati M
AU: Brunelli A
AU: Xiume F
AU: Refai M
AU: Sciarra V
AU: Soccetti A
AU: Sabbatini A
TI: Uniportal video-assisted thoracic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax: clinical and economic analysis in comparison to the traditional approach (Provisional abstract)
SO: Interactive CardioVascular and Thoracic Surgery
YR: 2008
VL: 7
NO: 2
PG: 63-66
KY: Follow-Up Studies;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pneumothorax [economics] [radiography] [surgery];Postoperative Complications;Retrospective Studies;Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted [economics] [instrumentation];Thoracoscopes [economics];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008000553/frame.html


Record #81 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008100566
AU: Fotis T
AU: Tsoumakidou G
AU: Katostaras T
AU: Kalokairinou A
AU: Konstantinou E
AU: Kiki V
AU: Perdikides T
TI: Cost and effectiveness comparison of endovascular aneurysm repair versus open surgical repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm: a single-center experience (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Vascular Nursing
YR: 2008
VL: 26
NO: 1
PG: 15-21
KY: Angioplasty [economics] [mortality] [nursing];Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal [surgery];Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation [economics] [mortality] [nursing];Chi-Square Distribution;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Services Research;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Critical Care [economics];Length of Stay [economics];numerical data;Nurse's Role;Retrospective Studies;Time Factors;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008100566/frame.html


Record #82 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008100597
AU: Talmor D
AU: Greenberg D
AU: Howell M D
AU: Lisbon A
AU: Novack V
AU: Shapiro N
TI: The costs and cost-effectiveness of an integrated sepsis treatment protocol (Provisional abstract)
SO: Critical Care Medicine
YR: 2008
VL: 36
NO: 4
PG: 1168-1174
KY: Anti-Bacterial Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];APACHE;Case-Control Studies;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [economics];numerical data;Prospective Studies;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Sepsis [classification] [drug therapy] [mortality];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008100597/frame.html


Record #83 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101615
AU: Blanchette C M
AU: Akazawa M
AU: Dalal A
AU: Simoni-Wastila L
TI: Risk of hospitalizations/emergency department visits and treatment costs associated with initial maintenance therapy using fluticasone propionate 500 mug/salmeterol 50 mug compared with ipratropium for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in older adults (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Geriatric Pharmacotherapy
YR: 2008
VL: 6
NO: 3
PG: 138-146
KY: Albuterol [analogs & derivatives];Androstadienes [therapeutic use];Bronchodilator Agents [therapeutic use];Cohort Studies;Costs and Cost Analysis;Databases, Factual;derivatives [therapeutic use];Drug Combinations;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Ipratropium [therapeutic use];numerical data;Proportional Hazards Models;Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive [drug therapy] [economics] [epidemiology];Retrospective Studies;Risk;Risk Assessment;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101615/frame.html


Record #84 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101874
AU: Fritzsche F R
AU: Dietel M
AU: Weichert W
AU: Buckendahl A C
TI: Cut-resistant protective gloves in pathology: effective and cost-effective (Provisional abstract)
SO: Virchows Archiv
YR: 2008
VL: 452
NO: 3
PG: 313-318
KY: Accidents, Occupational [prevention & control];Berlin;control [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Gloves, Surgical [economics] [utilization];Hand Injuries [prevention & control];Hospitals, University;Needlestick Injuries [prevention & control];numerical data;Pathology, Clinical [economics] [methods] [statistics & numerical data];Time Factors;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101874/frame.html


Record #85 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008100473
AU: Jakovljevic M
AU: Varjacic M
AU: Jankovic S M
TI: Cost-effectiveness of ritodrine and fenoterol for treatment of preterm labor in a low-middle-income country: a case study (Provisional abstract)
SO: Value in Health
YR: 2008
VL: 11
NO: 2
PG: 149-153
KY: Cohort Studies;Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics];Fenoterol [economics] [therapeutic use];Hospitals, University [statistics & numerical data];Montenegro;National Health Programs;numerical data;Obstetric Labor, Premature [drug therapy] [economics];Ritodrine [economics] [therapeutic use];Social Class;Tocolytic Agents [therapeutic use] [economics];Treatment Outcome;Yugoslavia;Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Pregnancy[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008100473/frame.html


Record #86 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101256
AU: Slover JD
AU: Tosteson AN
AU: Bozic KJ
AU: Rubash HE
AU: Malchau H
TI: Impact of hospital volume on the economic value of computer navigation for total knee replacement (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery. American volume
YR: 2008
VL: 90
NO: 7
PG: 1492-1500
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee [economics] [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Decision Support Techniques;Feasibility Studies;Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];Markov Chains;Models, Biological;numerical data;Osteoarthritis, Knee [surgery];Stereotaxic Techniques [economics];Surgery, Computer-Assisted [economics];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101256/frame.html


Record #87 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22009100132
AU: Polignano F M
AU: Quyn A J
AU: Figueiredo R S
AU: Henderson N A
AU: Kulli C
AU: Tait I S
TI: Laparoscopic versus open liver segmentectomy: prospective, case-matched, intention-to-treat analysis of clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness (Structured abstract)
SO: Surgical Endoscopy
YR: 2008
VL: 22
NO: 12
PG: 2564-2570
KY: Blood Loss, Surgical [prevention & control];Case-Control Studies;control [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hepatectomy [economics] [methods] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Intraoperative Period [statistics & numerical data];Laparoscopy [economics] [methods] [statistics & numerical data];Laparotomy [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Pain, Postoperative [epidemiology] [prevention & control];Prospective Studies;Scotland;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22009100132/frame.html


Record #88 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101049
AU: Luce BR
AU: Nichol KL
AU: Belshe RB
AU: Frick KD
AU: Li SX
AU: Boscoe A
AU: Rousculp MD
AU: Mahadevia PJ
TI: Cost-effectiveness of live attenuated influenza vaccine versus inactivated influenza vaccine among children aged 24-59 months in the United States (Structured abstract)
SO: Vaccine
YR: 2008
VL: 26
NO: 23
PG: 2841-2848
KY: control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Costs and Cost Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [economics];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Influenza, Human [economics] [epidemiology] [prevention & control];Influenza Vaccines [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];Length of Stay [economics];numerical data;Office Visits [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;United States [epidemiology];Vaccines, Attenuated [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];Vaccines, Inactivated [adverse effects] [economics] [therapeutic use];Child, Preschool[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101049/frame.html


Record #89 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008000716
AU: Deniz H B
AU: Caro J J
AU: Ward A
AU: Moller J
AU: Malik F
TI: Economic and health consequences of managing bradycardia with dual-chamber compared to single-chamber ventricular pacemakers in Italy (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Cardiovascular Medicine
YR: 2008
VL: 9
NO: 2
PG: 43-50
KY: Bradycardia [economics] [physiopathology] [therapy];Cardiac Pacing, Artificial [economics] [methods];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost of Illness;Equipment Design;Follow-Up Studies;Heart Ventricles [physiopathology];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Italy;Models, Economic;numerical data;Pacemaker, Artificial [economics];Quality of Life;Time Factors;Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008000716/frame.html


Record #90 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008101740
AU: Ladapo J A
AU: Hoffmann U
AU: Bamberg F
AU: Nagurney J T
AU: Cutler D M
AU: Weinstein M C
AU: Gazelle G S
TI: Cost-effectiveness of coronary MDCT in the triage of patients with acute chest pain (Structured abstract)
SO: American Journal of Roentgenology
YR: 2008
VL: 191
NO: 2
PG: 455-463
KY: Biomarkers [analysis];Chest Pain [mortality] [radiography];Coronary Angiography [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Diagnosis, Differential;Emergency Service, Hospital;Health Care Costs;Monte Carlo Method;numerical data;Patient Admission [statistics & numerical data];Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Risk Assessment;Tomography, X-Ray Computed [economics];Triage;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008101740/frame.html


Record #91 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007001222
AU: Lujan M
AU: Moreno A
AU: Veigas C
AU: Monton C
AU: Pomares X
AU: Domingo C
TI: Non-invasive home mechanical ventilation: effectiveness and efficiency of an outpatient initiation protocol compared with the standard in-hospital model (Provisional abstract)
SO: Respiratory Medicine
YR: 2007
VL: 101
NO: 6
PG: 1177-1182
KY: administration;Carbon Dioxide [blood];Clinical Protocols;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [organization & administration];Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Models, Organizational;numerical data;Outpatient Clinics, Hospital [organization & administration];Oxygen [blood];Partial Pressure;Prospective Studies;Respiration, Artificial [economics];Respiratory Insufficiency [blood] [etiology] [therapy];Spain;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007001222/frame.html


Record #92 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007002712
AU: Derksen R J
AU: Coupe V M
AU: Tulder M W
AU: Veenings B
AU: Bakker F C
TI: Cost-effectiveness of the SEN-concept: Specialized Emergency Nurses (SEN) treating ankle/foot injuries (Provisional abstract)
SO: BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders
YR: 2007
VL: 8
NO: 99
PG: 1-8
KY: administration;Ankle Injuries [diagnosis] [economics] [nursing];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Emergency Nursing [economics] [organization & administration];Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Foot Injuries [diagnosis] [economics] [nursing];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Medical Staff, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Nursing Service, Hospital [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Treatment Outcome;Workload [statistics & numerical data];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007002712/frame.html


Record #93 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008000188
AU: Mazo S
AU: Emparan C
AU: Vallejo M
AU: Soriano P
TI: Hospital-in-the-home treatment of surgical infectious diseases: an economic analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: Surgical Infections
YR: 2007
VL: 8
NO: 6
PG: 567-574
KY: Anti-Bacterial Agents [administration & dosage];Bacterial Infections [drug therapy] [economics] [therapy];dosage [therapeutic use];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Home Care Services [economics];numerical data;Surgical Wound Infection [drug therapy] [economics] [therapy];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008000188/frame.html


Record #94 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22008006111
AU: Unlu H
AU: Sardan Y C
AU: Ulker S
TI: Comparison of sampling methods for urine cultures (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Nursing Scholarship
YR: 2007
VL: 39
NO: 4
PG: 325-329
KY: Anti-Infective Agents, Local [economics] [therapeutic use];Asepsis [methods] [standards];Clinical Nursing Research;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, University;numerical data;Patient Education as Topic;Perineum [microbiology];Soaps [economics] [therapeutic use];Specimen Handling [economics] [methods] [nursing];Statistics, Nonparametric;Toilet Facilities;Turkey;Urinalysis [economics] [methods] [nursing];Urinary Catheterization;Urinary Tract Infections [diagnosis] [urine];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22008006111/frame.html


Record #95 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007000984
AU: Silva A
AU: Glick N R
AU: Lyss S B
AU: Hutchinson A B
AU: Gift T L
AU: Pealer L N
AU: Broussard D
AU: Whitman S
TI: Implementing an HIV and sexually transmitted disease screening program in an emergency department (Provisional abstract)
SO: Annals of Emergency Medicine
YR: 2007
VL: 49
NO: 5
PG: 564-572
KY: administration [statistics & numerical data] [statistics & numerical data];Age Distribution;Chicago [epidemiology];Continental Population Groups [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Emergency Service, Hospital [organization & administration];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];HIV Infections [diagnosis] [epidemiology];Hospitals, Urban [statistics & numerical data];Mass Screening [organization & administration];numerical data;Patient Acceptance of Health Care [statistics & numerical data];Program Development [methods];Sex Distribution;Sexually Transmitted Diseases [diagnosis] [epidemiology];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007000984/frame.html


Record #96 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007001310
AU: Ho Y L
AU: Hsu T P
AU: Chen C P
AU: Lee C V
AU: Lin Y H
AU: Hsu R B
AU: Wu Y W
AU: Chou N K
AU: Lee C M
AU: Wang S S
AU: Ting H T
AU: Chen M F
TI: Improved cost-effectiveness for management of chronic heart failure by combined home-based intervention with clinical nursing specialists (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of the Formosan Medical Association
YR: 2007
VL: 106
NO: 4
PG: 313-319
KY: Chi-Square Distribution;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Heart Failure [mortality] [nursing];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [economics];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Nurse Clinicians;Patient Readmission [statistics & numerical data];Regression Analysis;Treatment Outcome;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007001310/frame.html


Record #97 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007008325
AU: Lindenauer P K
AU: Rothberg M B
AU: Pekow P S
AU: Kenwood C
AU: Benjamin E M
AU: Auerbach A D
TI: Outcomes of care by hospitalists, general internists, and family physicians (Provisional abstract)
SO: New England Journal of Medicine
YR: 2007
VL: 357
NO: 2
PG: 2589-2600
KY: Cohort Studies;Family Practice [economics];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalists [economics];Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Mortality;Internal Medicine [economics];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Models, Statistical;Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Regression Analysis;Retrospective Studies;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007008325/frame.html


Record #98 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007002814
AU: Dhainaut J F
AU: Payet S
AU: Vallet B
AU: Franca L
AU: Annane D
AU: Bollaert P E
AU: Tulzo Y
AU: Runge I
AU: Malledant Y
AU: Guidet B
AU: Lay K
AU: Launois R
TI: Cost-effectiveness of activated protein C in real-life clinical practice (Provisional abstract)
SO: Critical Care
YR: 2007
VL: 11
NO: 5
PG: art R99
KY: Anticoagulants [economics] [therapeutic use];Cohort Studies;Cost-Benefit Analysis;France [epidemiology];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Multiple Organ Failure [drug therapy] [mortality];numerical data;Protein C [economics] [therapeutic use];Sepsis [drug therapy] [mortality];Survival Analysis;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007002814/frame.html


Record #99 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007000645
AU: Cox C E
AU: Carson S S
AU: Lindquist J H
AU: Olsen M K
AU: Govert J A
AU: Chelluri L
TI: Differences in one-year health outcomes and resource utilization by definition of prolonged mechanical ventilation: a prospective cohort study (Provisional abstract)
SO: Critical Care
YR: 2007
VL: 11
NO: R9
KY: Activities of Daily Living;Age Distribution;Critical Illness [economics] [mortality] [therapy];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Health Resources [utilization];Hospital Mortality;Intensive Care Units;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Prospective Studies;Quality of Life;Respiration, Artificial [economics];Survival Analysis;Time Factors;Tracheostomy;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007000645/frame.html


Record #100 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007006284
AU: New F R
AU: Winecoff A
TI: Cost and clinical outcomes of a back injury clinic (Provisional abstract)
SO: Nursing Economic$
YR: 2007
VL: 25
NO: 2
PG: 127-129
KY: Absenteeism;Accidents, Occupational [economics] [prevention & control];administration;Ambulatory Care Facilities [organization & administration];Back Injuries [economics] [prevention & control];Biomechanics;Clinical Protocols;control [rehabilitation];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost of Illness;Evidence-Based Medicine;Family Practice [organization & administration];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];North Carolina;numerical data;Nursing Evaluation Research;Occupational Health Nursing [organization & administration];Occupational Health Services [organization & administration];Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Patient Education as Topic [organization & administration];Personnel, Hospital;Program Evaluation;Referral and Consultation [organization & administration];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007006284/frame.html


Record #101 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007000761
AU: Lalwani K
AU: Kitchin J
AU: Lax P
TI: Office-based dental rehabilitation in children with special healthcare needs using a Pediatric Sedation Service model (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
YR: 2007
VL: 65
NO: 3
PG: 427-433
KY: Anesthesia, Dental [economics] [methods];Anesthesia, General [economics];Conscious Sedation [economics];Costs and Cost Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Cost Savings;Dental Care for Children [economics];Dental Care for Disabled [economics];Dental Restoration, Permanent [economics];Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Office Visits [economics];Operating Rooms [economics];Retrospective Studies;Child[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007000761/frame.html


Record #102 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007008308
AU: Auerbach A D
AU: Rasic M A
AU: Sehgal N
AU: Ide B
AU: Stone B
AU: Maselli J
TI: Opportunity missed: medical consultation, resource use, and quality of care of patients undergoing major surgery (Provisional abstract)
SO: Archives of Internal Medicine
YR: 2007
VL: 167
NO: 21
PG: 2338-2344
KY: Cohort Studies;control;Hospital Costs;Internal Medicine [methods];Length of Stay;Multivariate Analysis;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [statistics & numerical data];Postoperative Complications [prevention & control];Preoperative Care [methods] [standards];Quality of Health Care;Referral and Consultation;Surgical Procedures, Operative;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007008308/frame.html


Record #103 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007000147
AU: Honeycutt A A
AU: Coleman M S
AU: Anderson W L
AU: Wirth K E
TI: Cost-effectiveness of hospital vaccination programs in North Carolina (Structured abstract)
SO: Vaccine
YR: 2007
VL: 25
NO: 8
PG: 1484-1496
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Health Care Costs;Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];Influenza Vaccines [economics];North Carolina;numerical data;Pneumococcal Vaccines [economics];Vaccination [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007000147/frame.html


Record #104 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007008273
AU: Byford S
AU: Barrett B
AU: Roberts C
AU: Clark A
AU: Edwards V
AU: Smethurst N
AU: Gowers SG
TI: Economic evaluation of a randomised controlled trial for anorexia nervosa in adolescents (Structured abstract)
SO: British Journal of Psychiatry
YR: 2007
VL: 191
NO: 2
PG: 436-440
KY: Anorexia Nervosa [economics] [therapy];Cognitive Therapy [economics];Community Mental Health Services [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Delivery of Health Care [economics] [methods];England;Family Therapy [economics];Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Health Resources [utilization];Health Services Research;Hospitalization [economics];numerical data;Outpatient Clinics, Hospital [economics];State Medicine [economics];Treatment Outcome;Adolescent[checkword];Child[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007008273/frame.html


Record #105 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22007000656
AU: Latour C H
AU: Bosmans J E
AU: Tulder M W
AU: Vos R
AU: Huyse F J
AU: Jonge P
AU: Gemert L A
AU: Stalman W A
TI: Cost-effectiveness of a nurse-led case management intervention in general medical outpatients compared with usual care: an economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Psychosomatic Research
YR: 2007
VL: 62
NO: 3
PG: 363-370
KY: Case Management [economics] [utilization];Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics];Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [utilization];Home Care Services [economics] [utilization];Netherlands;numerical data;Nurse Clinicians [economics];Patient Care Team [economics] [utilization];Patient Discharge [economics];Patient Readmission [economics];Referral and Consultation [economics] [utilization];Specialties, Medical [economics];Utilization Review [statistics & numerical data];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22007000656/frame.html


Record #106 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006000742
AU: Gosselin R A
AU: Thind A
AU: Bellardinelli A
TI: Cost/DALY averted in a small hospital in Sierra Leone: what is the relative contribution of different services? (Provisional abstract)
SO: World Journal of Surgery
YR: 2006
VL: 30
NO: 4
PG: 505-511
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics];Cost Savings [economics];Developing Countries;Disability Evaluation;Health Policy [economics];Health Resources [economics];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Rural [economics];numerical data;Policy Making;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Sierra Leone;Surgery Department, Hospital [economics];Surgical Procedures, Operative [economics];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006000742/frame.html


Record #107 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006001586
AU: Choudhary M
AU: Ramirez L
AU: Long R
AU: Simmons K B
AU: Blair D C
AU: Forbes B A
AU: Same K
AU: Ploutz-Snyder R
AU: Rose F B
TI: A university hospital's 10-year experience with tuberculin testing: value of the 2-step tuberculin skin test (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Infection Control
YR: 2006
VL: 34
NO: 6
PG: 358-361
KY: Chi-Square Distribution;control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Hospitals, University;Infectious Disease Transmission, Patient-to-Professional [prevention & control];Mass Screening [economics] [methods] [statistics & numerical data];New York;numerical data;Personnel, Hospital [statistics & numerical data];Tuberculin Test [economics] [methods] [statistics & numerical data];Tuberculosis [immunology];United States;United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration [standards];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006001586/frame.html


Record #108 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006001270
AU: Eastridge B J
AU: Shafi S
AU: Minei J P
AU: Culica D
AU: McConnel C
AU: Gentilello L
TI: Economic impact of motorcycle helmets: from impact to discharge (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Trauma
YR: 2006
VL: 60
NO: 5
PG: 978-983
KY: Accidents, Traffic [economics] [mortality] [prevention & control];control;Cost of Illness;Costs and Cost Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Craniocerebral Trauma [economics] [mortality] [prevention & control];Cross-Sectional Studies;Databases, Factual;Emergency Medical Services [economics] [utilization];Head Protective Devices [economics] [utilization];Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Incidence;Motorcycles;numerical data;Patient Admission [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Survival Analysis;Utilization Review [statistics & numerical data];Wounds and Injuries [economics] [mortality] [prevention & control];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006001270/frame.html


Record #109 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006001204
AU: Dasta J F
AU: Jacobi J
AU: Sesti A M
AU: McLaughlin T P
TI: Addition of dexmedetomidine to standard sedation regimens after cardiac surgery: an outcomes analysis (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pharmacotherapy
YR: 2006
VL: 26
NO: 6 I
PG: 798-805
KY: Cardiac Surgical Procedures;Dexmedetomidine [economics] [therapeutic use];Drug Therapy, Combination;Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];Hypnotics and Sedatives [economics] [therapeutic use];Intensive Care Units [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay;Lorazepam [economics] [therapeutic use];Midazolam [economics] [therapeutic use];numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [economics] [methods];Propofol [economics] [therapeutic use];Retrospective Studies;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006001204/frame.html


Record #110 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22005001574
AU: Wang C
AU: Ghalambor N
AU: Zarins B
AU: Warner J J
TI: Arthroscopic versus open bankart repair: analysis of patient subjective outcome and cost (Provisional abstract)
SO: Arthroscopy
YR: 2005
VL: 21
NO: 10
PG: 1219-1222
KY: Ambulatory Surgical Procedures [economics] [methods] [psychology] [statistics & numerical data];Anesthesia [economics] [methods];Arthroscopy [economics] [methods] [psychology] [statistics & numerical data];Fibrocartilage [injuries] [surgery];Hospital Costs;Hospitals, Teaching [economics];Intraoperative Period;numerical data;Operating Rooms [economics];Orthopedic Procedures [economics] [methods] [psychology] [statistics & numerical data];Patient Satisfaction;Postoperative Complications [epidemiology];Recurrence;Retrospective Studies;Shoulder Dislocation [epidemiology];Shoulder Joint [surgery];Treatment Outcome;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22005001574/frame.html


Record #111 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22005008125
AU: Walsh B
AU: Steiner A
AU: Pickering R M
AU: Ward-Basu J
TI: Economic evaluation of nurse led intermediate care versus standard acute care for post-acute medical patients: cost minimisation analysis of data from a randomised controlled trial (Structured abstract)
SO: BMJ
YR: 2005
VL: 330
NO: 2
PG: 699-702
KY: Acute Disease [economics];Acute Disease [nursing];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Economics, Nursing;Great Britain;Hospital Costs;Hospitalization [economics];Hospitals, Teaching [economics];Length of Stay [economics];Nursing Care;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic;Urban Health;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22005008125/frame.html


Record #112 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006006443
AU: Wenger U
AU: Johnsson E
AU: Bergquist H
AU: Nyman J
AU: Ejnell H
AU: Lagergren J
AU: Ruth M
AU: Lundell L
TI: Health economic evaluation of stent or endoluminal brachytherapy as a palliative strategy in patients with incurable cancer of the oesophagus or gastro-oesophageal junction: results of a randomized clinical trial (Provisional abstract)
SO: European Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology
YR: 2005
VL: 17
NO: 12
PG: 1369-1377
KY: Brachytherapy [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Deglutition Disorders [economics] [radiotherapy] [therapy];Esophageal Neoplasms [radiotherapy] [therapy];Esophagogastric Junction;Health Care Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Palliative Care [economics] [methods];Prospective Studies;Severity of Illness Index;Stents [economics];Survival Analysis;Sweden;Treatment Outcome;Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006006443/frame.html


Record #113 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22005001349
AU: Arredondo A
AU: Burke T A
AU: Carides G W
AU: Lemus E
AU: Querol J
TI: The impact of losartan on the lifetime incidence of ESRD and costs in Mexico (Provisional abstract)
SO: Revista de Investigacion Clinica
YR: 2005
VL: 57
NO: 3
PG: 399-405
KY: Angiotensin II Type 1 Receptor Blockers [economics] [therapeutic use];Antihypertensive Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost of Illness;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2 [complications] [economics];Diabetic Nephropathies [complications] [economics] [epidemiology];Disease-Free Survival;Double-Blind Method;Follow-Up Studies;Hospitals, Public [statistics & numerical data];Hypertension [complications] [drug therapy];Incidence;Insurance, Health, Reimbursement [statistics & numerical data];Kidney Failure, Chronic [economics] [epidemiology] [etiology] [prevention & control];Life Expectancy;Losartan [economics] [therapeutic use];Mexico [epidemiology];Multicenter Studies as Topic [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic [statistics & numerical data];Renal Replacement Therapy [economics];Risk;Survival Analysis;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22005001349/frame.html


Record #114 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22005001304
AU: Bond C A
AU: Raehl C L
TI: Clinical and economic outcomes of pharmacist-managed aminoglycoside or vancomycin therapy (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy
YR: 2005
VL: 62
NO: 15
PG: 1596-1605
KY: Aminoglycosides [economics] [therapeutic use];Anti-Bacterial Agents [economics] [therapeutic use];Bacteremia [drug therapy] [epidemiology];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross Infection [drug therapy] [epidemiology];Diagnosis-Related Groups [statistics & numerical data];Drug Monitoring;Drug Utilization Review;Length of Stay;Medicare;numerical data;Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care);Patient Care Team;Pharmacists;Pharmacy Service, Hospital [economics] [standards] [utilization];Professional Role;United States [epidemiology];Vancomycin [economics] [therapeutic use];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22005001304/frame.html


Record #115 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22005001531
AU: LeBel J
AU: Goldstein R
TI: The economic cost of using restraint and the value added by restraint reduction or elimination (Provisional abstract)
SO: Psychiatric Services
YR: 2005
VL: 56
NO: 9
PG: 1109-1114
KY: Burnout, Professional [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Cost Savings [statistics & numerical data];Drug Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Psychiatric [economics];Mental Disorders [economics];numerical data;Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care);Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Patient Care Team [economics];Patient Discharge [economics];Patient Readmission [economics];Pennsylvania;Personnel Staffing and Scheduling [economics];Psychotropic Drugs [economics] [therapeutic use];Restraint, Physical;Adolescent[checkword];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22005001531/frame.html


Record #116 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22006006334
AU: Gillespie E L
AU: White C M
AU: Kluger J
AU: Sahni J
AU: Gallagher R
AU: Coleman C I
TI: A hospital perspective on the cost-effectiveness of beta-blockade for prophylaxis of atrial fibrillation after cardiothoracic surgery (Structured abstract)
SO: Clinical Therapeutics
YR: 2005
VL: 27
NO: 12
PG: 1963-1969
KY: Adrenergic beta-Antagonists [therapeutic use];Atrial Fibrillation [prevention & control];Case-Control Studies;Connecticut;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay [economics];Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Postoperative Complications [prevention & control];Prospective Studies;Thoracic Surgical Procedures;Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22006006334/frame.html


Record #117 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22004001311
AU: Paul I M
AU: Phillips T A
AU: Widome M D
AU: Hollenbeak C S
TI: Cost-effectiveness of postnatal home nursing visits for prevention of hospital care for jaundice and dehydration (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pediatrics
YR: 2004
VL: 114
NO: 4
PG: 1015-1022
KY: control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Dehydration [economics] [prevention & control];Emergency Service, Hospital [economics] [utilization];Home Care Services [economics];Hospitalization [economics];Infant, Newborn;Jaundice, Neonatal [economics] [prevention & control];jurisprudence;Length of Stay [legislation & jurisprudence];numerical data;Patient Readmission [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Postnatal Care [economics];Retrospective Studies;United States;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22004001311/frame.html


Record #118 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22003009528
AU: Greco M
AU: Cozzio S
AU: Scillieri M
AU: Caprari F
AU: Scivales A
AU: Disertori M
TI: Diagnostic pathway syncope and analysis of the impact of guidelines in a district general hospital: the ECSIT study (Epidemiology and Cost of Syncope in Trento) (Structured abstract)
SO: Italian Heart Journal
YR: 2003
VL: 4
NO: 2
PG: 99-106
KY: Cerebrovascular Disorders [complications];Cerebrovascular Disorders [diagnosis];Cerebrovascular Disorders [economics];Costs and Cost Analysis [economics];Costs and Cost Analysis [standards];Data Collection;Diagnostic Techniques and Procedures [economics];Diagnostic Techniques and Procedures [standards];Feasibility Studies;Heart Diseases [complications];Heart Diseases [diagnosis];Heart Diseases [economics];Hospitalization [economics];Hospitals, District [economics];Hospitals, District [standards];Hospitals, General [economics];Hospitals, General [standards];Incidence;Italy [epidemiology];Length of Stay [economics];Patient Care Management [economics];Patient Care Management [standards];Pilot Projects;Retrospective Studies;Syncope [diagnosis];Syncope [economics];Syncope [epidemiology];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22003009528/frame.html


Record #119 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22003006032
AU: Secco G B
AU: Cataletti M
AU: Bonfante P
AU: Baldi E
AU: Davini M D
AU: Biasotti B
AU: Ravera G
AU: Ferraris R
TI: Laparoscopic versus mini-cholecystectomy: analysis of hospital costs and social costs in a prospective randomized study (Structured abstract)
SO: Chirurgia Italiana
YR: 2002
VL: 54
NO: 5
PG: 685-692
KY: Cholangiography;Cholecystectomy [economics];Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic [economics];Cholelithiasis [surgery];Convalescence;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Costs and Cost Analysis;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Length of Stay;Patient Compliance;Postoperative Complications;Prospective Studies;Retrospective Studies;Socioeconomic Factors;Time Factors;Work;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22003006032/frame.html


Record #120 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22003000152
AU: Lissovoy G
AU: Subedi P
TI: Economic evaluation of enoxaparin as prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism in seriously ill medical patients: A US perspective (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Managed Care
YR: 2002
VL: 8
NO: 12
PG: 1082-1088
KY: Anticoagulants [economics] [pharmacokinetics] [therapeutic use];Clinical Trials as Topic;control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Double-Blind Method;Drug Costs;Enoxaparin [economics] [pharmacokinetics] [therapeutic use];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];numerical data;Premedication [economics];Thromboembolism [economics] [prevention & control];United States;Venous Thrombosis [economics] [prevention & control];Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22003000152/frame.html


Record #121 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22001000994
AU: Palmer S
AU: Bader M K
AU: Qureshi A
AU: Palmer J
AU: Shaver T
AU: Borzatta M
AU: Stalcup C
TI: The impact on outcomes in a community hospital setting of using the AANS traumatic brain injury guidelines (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Trauma
YR: 2001
VL: 50
NO: 4
PG: 657-664
KY: administration;Age Distribution;Algorithms;Brain Injuries [economics] [mortality] [therapy];Clinical Protocols [standards];Decision Trees;Glasgow Coma Scale;Guideline Adherence [economics] [standards];Health Resources [economics] [utilization];Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Community [standards];Injury Severity Score;Length of Stay [statistics & numerical data];Logistic Models;Monitoring, Physiologic;numerical data;Odds Ratio;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Patient Admission;Patient Care Team [organization & administration];Practice Guidelines as Topic;Prospective Studies;Retrospective Studies;Survival Analysis;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Child[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22001000994/frame.html


Record #122 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22001008278
AU: Jerant AF
AU: Azari R
AU: Nesbitt TS
TI: Reducing the cost of frequent hospital admissions for congestive heart failure: a randomized trial of a home telecare intervention (Structured abstract)
SO: Medical Care
YR: 2001
VL: 39
NO: 11
PG: 1234-1245
KY: Aftercare [methods];Analysis of Variance;California;Cost Control [methods];Cost of Illness;Heart Failure [economics] [therapy];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based;Hospital Charges;numerical data;Patient Discharge;Patient Readmission [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Pilot Projects;Telemedicine [methods];Telephone;Television;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22001008278/frame.html


Record #123 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22001001477
AU: Canales P L
AU: Dorson P G
AU: Crismon M L
TI: Outcomes assessment of clinical pharmacy services in a psychiatric inpatient setting (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy
YR: 2001
VL: 58
NO: 14
PG: 1309-1316
KY: Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Psychiatric [statistics & numerical data];Inpatients [psychology] [statistics & numerical data];Mental Disorders [psychology] [therapy];numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care) [statistics & numerical data];Pharmacists [statistics & numerical data];Pharmacy Service, Hospital [methods] [statistics & numerical data];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22001001477/frame.html


Record #124 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22001006794
AU: Walsh-Sukys M
AU: Reitenbach A
AU: Hudson-Barr D
AU: DePompei P
TI: Reducing light and sound in the neonatal intensive care unit: an evaluation of patient safety, staff satisfaction and costs (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Perinatology
YR: 2001
VL: 21
NO: 4
PG: 230-235
KY: Attitude of Health Personnel;Costs and Cost Analysis;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Hospital Design and Construction [economics];Hospital Design and Construction [standards];Intensive Care Units, Neonatal [economics];Intensive Care Units, Neonatal [standards];Lighting [economics];Lighting [standards];Medical Staff, Hospital [psychology];Personal Satisfaction;Safety Management [methods];Safety Management [standards];Sound;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22001006794/frame.html


Record #125 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21999008352
AU: Jones J
AU: Wilson A
AU: Parker H
AU: Wynn A
AU: Jagger C
AU: Spiers N
AU: Parker G
TI: Economic evaluation of hospital at home versus hospital care: cost minimisation analysis of data from randomised controlled trial (Structured abstract)
SO: BMJ
YR: 1999
VL: 319
NO: 2
PG: 1547-1550
KY: Cost of Illness;England;Health Care Costs;Health Resources [utilization];Home Care Services, Hospital-Based [economics];Hospital Costs;Hospitalization [economics];Length of Stay;Sensitivity and Specificity;Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21999008352/frame.html


Record #126 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21999001756
AU: Seguin J
AU: Garber B G
AU: Coyle D
AU: Hebert P C
TI: An economic evaluation of trauma care in a Canadian lead trauma hospital (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Trauma
YR: 1999
VL: 47
NO: 3 Supplement S
PG: S99-S103
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross-Sectional Studies;Health Services Research;Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Models, Econometric;numerical data;Ontario;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Retrospective Studies;Trauma Centers [economics];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21999001756/frame.html


Record #127 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21999006994
AU: Barker S B
AU: Knisely J S
AU: Dawson K S
TI: The evaluation of a consultation service for delivery of substance abuse services in a hospital setting (Provisional abstract)
SO: Journal of Addictive Diseases
YR: 1999
VL: 18
NO: 1
PG: 73-82
KY: Cost-Benefit Analysis;Evaluation Studies as Topic;Hospitalization [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Teaching;Length of Stay;Mid-Atlantic Region;numerical data;Outcome Assessment (Health Care);Program Evaluation;Referral and Consultation [standards];Substance Abuse Treatment Centers [standards];Substance-Related Disorders [rehabilitation];Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21999006994/frame.html


Record #128 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21999001148
AU: Condra L J
AU: Morreale A P
AU: Stolley S N
AU: Marcus D
TI: Assessment of patient satisfaction with a formulary switch from omeprazole to lansoprazole in gastroesophageal reflux disease maintenance therapy (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Managed Care
YR: 1999
VL: 5
NO: 5
PG: 631-638
KY: 2-Pyridinylmethylsulfinylbenzimidazoles;California;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cost Savings;derivatives [economics] [therapeutic use];Drug Costs;Formularies, Hospital [standards];Gastroesophageal Reflux [drug therapy];Health Care Surveys;Hospitals, Veterans [standards];numerical data;Omeprazole [adverse effects] [analogs & derivatives];Patient Satisfaction [statistics & numerical data];Surveys and Questionnaires;Therapeutic Equivalency;Treatment Outcome;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21999001148/frame.html


Record #129 of 138
ID: NHSEED-22000000079
AU: Lightwood J M
AU: Phibbs C S
AU: Glantz S A
TI: Short-term health and economic benefits of smoking cessation: low birth weight (Provisional abstract)
SO: Pediatrics
YR: 1999
VL: 104
NO: 6
PG: 1312-1320
KY: California [epidemiology];Cost-Benefit Analysis [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Incidence;Infant, Low Birth Weight;Infant, Newborn;Maternal Welfare [economics] [ethnology] [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Odds Ratio;Pregnancy Trimester, First;Prevalence;Risk Factors;Smoking [economics] [ethnology];Smoking Cessation [economics] [ethnology] [statistics & numerical data];Time Factors;Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Pregnancy[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-22000000079/frame.html


Record #130 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21999000384
AU: Malek M
AU: Cunningham-Davis J
AU: Malek L
AU: Paschen B
AU: Tavakoli M
AU: Zabihollah M
AU: Davey P
TI: A cost minimisation analysis of cardiac failure treatment in the UK using CIBIS trial data (Structured abstract)
SO: International Journal of Clinical Practice
YR: 1999
VL: 53
NO: 1
PG: 19-23
KY: Adrenergic beta-Antagonists [economics];Adrenergic beta-Antagonists [therapeutic use];Bisoprolol [economics];Bisoprolol [therapeutic use];Cardiac Output, Low [drug therapy];Cardiac Output, Low [economics];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Drug Costs;Hospital Costs;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21999000384/frame.html


Record #131 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21998006769
AU: Meding J B
AU: Keating E M
AU: Faris P M
AU: Ritter M A
TI: Maximizing cost-effectiveness while minimizing complications in total hip replacement (Provisional abstract)
SO: American Journal of Orthopedics
YR: 1998
VL: 27
NO: 4
PG: 295-298
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip [adverse effects] [economics];control;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Health Care Surveys;Hip Prosthesis [adverse effects] [economics];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];numerical data;Prosthesis Failure;Prosthesis-Related Infections [prevention & control];Reoperation;Treatment Outcome;United States;Adult[checkword];Aged[checkword];Aged, 80 and over[checkword];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21998006769/frame.html


Record #132 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21998000748
AU: Rosenheck R A
AU: Neale M S
TI: Cost-effectiveness of intensive psychiatric community care for high users of inpatient services (Provisional abstract)
SO: Archives of General Psychiatry
YR: 1998
VL: 55
NO: 5
PG: 459-466
KY: Age Factors;Community Mental Health Services [economics] [utilization];Connecticut;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Follow-Up Studies;Health Care Costs;Health Services Research;Hospitalization [economics] [statistics & numerical data];Hospitals, Veterans [economics] [utilization];Mental Disorders [economics] [therapy];numerical data;Patient Acceptance of Health Care;Patient Satisfaction;Social Adjustment;Treatment Outcome;United States;United States Department of Veterans Affairs;Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21998000748/frame.html


Record #133 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21998001532
AU: Meier P A
AU: Fredrickson M
AU: Catney M
AU: Nettleman M D
TI: Impact of a dedicated intravenous therapy team on nosocomial bloodstream infection rates (Structured abstract)
SO: American Journal of Infection Control
YR: 1998
VL: 26
NO: 4
PG: 388-392
KY: Bacteremia [economics];Bacteremia [epidemiology];Bacteremia [microbiology];Bacteremia [prevention & control];Blood-Borne Pathogens;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross Infection [economics];Cross Infection [epidemiology];Cross Infection [microbiology];Cross Infection [prevention & control];Data Collection;Hospital Bed Capacity, 100 to 299;Hospitals, Veterans [statistics & numerical data];Incidence;Infection Control [economics];Infection Control [methods];Infusions, Intravenous [adverse effects];Infusions, Intravenous [nursing];Iowa;Patient Care Team [economics];Patient Care Team [organization & administration];Prospective Studies;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21998001532/frame.html


Record #134 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21997001250
AU: Dardik A
AU: Williams G M
AU: Minken S L
AU: Perler B A
TI: Impact of a critical pathway on the results of carotid endarterectomy in a tertiary care university hospital: effect of methods on outcome (Structured abstract)
SO: Journal of Vascular Surgery
YR: 1997
VL: 26
NO: 2
PG: 186-192
KY: Analysis of Variance;Angiography;Baltimore;Critical Pathways;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Endarterectomy, Carotid [adverse effects];Endarterectomy, Carotid [economics];Endarterectomy, Carotid [mortality];Hospital Costs;Hospitals, University [economics];Hospitals, University [statistics & numerical data];Length of Stay;Reoperation;Retrospective Studies;Treatment Outcome;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21997001250/frame.html


Record #135 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21996008137
AU: Croix S J
AU: Russo G
TI: A cost-benefit analysis of voluntary routine HIV-antibody testing for hospital patients (Provisional abstract)
SO: Social Science and Medicine
YR: 1996
VL: 42
NO: 9
PG: 1259-1272
KY: AIDS Serodiagnosis [economics];control [transmission] [transmission] [statistics & numerical data];Cost-Benefit Analysis;Cross Infection [economics] [prevention & control];Economics, Hospital [statistics & numerical data];Health Personnel [statistics & numerical data];HIV Infections [economics] [prevention & control];HIV Seroprevalence;Infectious Disease Transmission, Patient-to-Professional [economics] [prevention & control];Models, Economic;numerical data;Risk Assessment;Risk-Taking;Sexual Behavior [statistics & numerical data];Sexual Partners;Value of Life;Adolescent[checkword];Adult[checkword];Humans[checkword];Middle Aged[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21996008137/frame.html


Record #136 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21996000307
AU: Leger A S
AU: Spencely M
AU: McCollum C N
AU: Mossa M
TI: Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: a computer assisted cost-utility analysis (Structured abstract)
SO: European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery
YR: 1996
VL: 11
NO: 2
PG: 183-190
KY: Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal [economics];Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal [mortality];Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal [prevention & control];Computer Simulation;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Great Britain [epidemiology];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Mass Screening [economics];Mass Screening [statistics & numerical data];Models, Economic;Quality-Adjusted Life Years;Risk Factors;Sensitivity and Specificity;Aged[checkword];Humans[checkword];Male[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21996000307/frame.html


Record #137 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21996000099
AU: Low D E
TI: Gastroesophageal reflux disease: examination of outcome and cost data of open and laparoscopic antireflux operations at Virginia Mason medical center in Seattle (Structured abstract)
SO: Surgical Endoscopy - Ultrasound and Interventional Techniques
YR: 1995
VL: 9
NO: 12
PG: 1326-1328
KY: Academic Medical Centers;Cost-Benefit Analysis;Costs and Cost Analysis;Gastroesophageal Reflux [surgery];Hospital Charges;Hospital Costs;Laparoscopy [economics];Laparoscopy [methods];Length of Stay [economics];Prospective Studies;Quality of Life;Treatment Outcome;Washington;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21996000099/frame.html


Record #138 of 138
ID: NHSEED-21995007056
AU: Henderson J W
TI: The cost-effectiveness of prenatal care (Structured abstract)
SO: Health Care Financing Review
YR: 1994
VL: 15
NO: 4
PG: 21-32
KY: Causality;Cost-Benefit Analysis [statistics & numerical data];Data Collection;Ethnic Groups;Health Services Research;Hospital Charges [statistics & numerical data];Hospital Costs [statistics & numerical data];Hospitalization [economics];Infant, Low Birth Weight;Infant, Newborn;Intensive Care Units, Neonatal [economics];Least-Squares Analysis;Marital Status;Pregnancy Outcome [economics];Prenatal Care [economics];Prenatal Care [statistics & numerical data];Prenatal Care [utilization];Texas [epidemiology];Female[checkword];Humans[checkword];Pregnancy[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/cleed/articles/NHSEED-21995007056/frame.html


Technological Assessments:

Record #1 of 4
ID: HTA-32016000610
TI: The role of hospital organisation, surgical factors, and the enhanced recovery pathway, on patient outcomes and NHS costs following primary hip and knee replacement surgery: spatial and longitudinal analysis of routine data (Project record)
SO: Health Technology Assessment Database
YR: 2016
NO: 3
PB: Health Services and Delivery Research
KY: Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee;Costs and Cost Analysis;Data Collection;Health Care Quality, Access, and Evaluation;Hospital Medicine;Surgery Department, Hospital;Humans[checkword]
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clhta/articles/HTA-32016000610/frame.html


Record #2 of 4
ID: HTA-32006001337
TI: Analysis of the quality of the register of basic minimum data set of the tertiary hospitals in the Basque Autonomous Region (Project record)
SO: Health Technology Assessment Database
YR: 2006
NO: 3
PB: Basque Office for Health Technology Assessment, Health Department Basque Government (OSTEBA)
KY: Data Collection [standards];Hospitals [statistics & numerical data];Registries [standards];Spain
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clhta/articles/HTA-32006001337/frame.html


Record #3 of 4
ID: HTA-32007000621
AU: Lambert L
AU: Bogaty P
AU: Brophy J
AU: Boothroyd LJ
TI: The practice of percutaneous coronary interventions in hospitals without on-site cardiac surgery: review of guidelines and analysis of Quebec data, 1999-2004 (Structured abstract)
SO: Health Technology Assessment Database
YR: 2007
NO: 3
PB: Agence d'Evaluation des Technologies et des Modes d'Intervention en Sante (AETMIS)
KY: Angioplasty, Transluminal, Percutaneous Coronary
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clhta/articles/HTA-32007000621/frame.html


Record #4 of 4
ID: HTA-32006000859
AU: Rowe B
AU: Bond K
AU: Ospina M
AU: Blitz S
AU: Schull M
AU: Sinclair D
AU: Bullard M
TI: Data collection on patients in emergency departments in Canada (Structured abstract)
SO: Health Technology Assessment Database
YR: 2006
NO: 3
PG: 26
PB: Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health (CADTH)
KY: Attitude of Health Personnel;Bed Occupancy;Burnout, Professional;Canada;Crowding;Efficiency, Organizational;Emergency Medicine [manpower];Emergency Service, Hospital [organization & administration];Health Services Needs and Demand;Models, Organizational;Nurse's Role;Patient Satisfaction;Systems Analysis;Triage;Workload
US: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/o/cochrane/clhta/articles/HTA-32006000859/frame.html


